





















































1 A brief note about ACRE Coin and what our team seeks to do with this revolutionary project.
INTRODUCTION

2 General market observation and occurrence that 
ACRE Coin intents to disrupt.

 MARKET OVERVIEW

3  ACRE Coin’s adoption in mass market and ways  of 
achieving it

 PRACTICAL CRYPTOCURRENCY

4
MARKET OUTREACH, ROADMAP & COIN SPECS
Our strategy on how to market ACRE Coin , our 

realistic roadmap and the unique incentives for 

HODLER



ACRE Coin is a joint proof of stake and Masternode consensus that designs to provide disruptive decentralized 
property-related ecosystem with a view to shift the paradigm of property rental industry. ACRE coin embraces the 
blockchain revolution and aims to develop and operates real estate portals and delivering the most comprehensive 
set of related real estate services including Airbnb concept-like as our core project followed by advertisement, 
marketing and legal services in our website getaway. As we know that property dealings involve meeting of face, 
payments for the aforesaid services will be in the form of ACRE coin via scanning of QT codes on the mobile wallets. 
ACRE Coin seeks to fill the hotbed of blockchain-based property rental transactions.
 
Setting periodical realistic targets, ACRE Coin backed by its experienced team in related-field will open a new getaway 
to serves as a medium of exchange for consumers, home-owners, property agents, developers, lawyers and other 
relevant parties. Our unique website-crypto platform shall offers property rental listings, geopolitical updates and 
property related information that will disrupt legacy property rental website such as AirBnB.
 
ACRE Coin is derived from PIVX Platform and will adopt its best standard solutions.



AirBnB and  ACRE Coin scalability

Targeted and effective marketing strategy will 

be employed by our team to provide awareness 

of an alternative to AirBnB

ACRE Coin wants to carve out a market for crypto enthusiasts with low-

fee for the society who has to bear with the ever changing terms and 

conditions of AirBnB

Since the company’s founding in 2008, there have been over 200 million total 

guest arrivals​ at Airbnb listings around the world. They chose their rooms and paid 

for everything online. But their beds were provided by private individuals, rather 

than a hotel chain.. It is the most prominent example of a huge new “sharing 

economy”, in which people rent beds, cars, boats and other assets directly from 

each other, co-ordinated via the internet



15%
Service fee on the guestService fee on the host

3%
ACRE’s fee

A  custom  API  will  be  created  to  allow  conventional property platforms  to  create property postings and  connect to our 

platforms. Co-existence and a win-win situation is key

ACRE Coin plans to create a platform with similar experience of AirBNB where besides payment of rental with its own ACRE Coin. A 

host sets a price. Users book, paying for rooms with ACRE Coin. Then, when guests leave and indicate they are happy with the 

experience, the ACRE Coins are released to the host. 

Further, with ACRE Coin mobile wallet at hands, any of the transacting parties can seamlessly pay for rent and skip conventional 

banking institution. 

3%



 Website for hosts to  list their property for rent and 

users to search for the most suitable accommodation 

that suits their needs

 ACRE’s PROPERTY WEBSITE

A d o p t i n g  t h e  l ay o u t s  o f  t h e  m o s t  u s e r - f r i e n d l y  a n d 

comprehensive websites in the internet, our specialized web and 

mobile developer will design a property rental hub that provides 

visibility of the subject matter (property and price) from all over 

the world and the equally important dispute resolution and 

helpline.



Consumers can write unbiased review about 

their experience during the stay. Once ACRE 

coin is released to the host, consumer will be 

able to drop review. This ensures that each 

review recorded is not bogus and is 

independently verified.

Hosts and consumers can verify the 

transaction via our explorer and prevent 

fraud which is prevalent in conventional 

fiat-banking transactions.

Hosts list their 

property for rent via 

our website

Photos of the property 

will be prominently 

displayed on our website 

for convenience of users.



ACRE TEAM is aware of the needs to project this brand to wider global audience and helping the public to understand the benefits 
and sustainability of this ecosystem. 

To ensure that the public can truly relate to the brand and feel connected with ACRE Coin, we aim to market this ACRE Coin vide 
several ways :

Sponsored Twitter Ads via Bounty

Sponsored Masternode Online Ads

Youtube Videos

Awareness 

Bounties

Official Discord Server

ANN.

Official Twitter & 

Posts.

Official Telegram Channel

Official SubReddit
Medium & Steemit

Printed Ads on prominent place such as highway, 

buildings, cars



ACRE Coin is mounted on “Cross-
Planks Protocol” which achieves cross-
chain communication via “planks” – 
a protocol that enables 
communication between the 
Participating Network and Connecting 
Network. Consensus across planks is 
achieved by “validators” whose 
behavior is managed by various 
algorithms and an incentive 
mechanism.

The plank’s validators are managed by 
people with a stake in the Connecting 
Network. If two or more planks validators 
within ACRE approve the interchain 
transaction, the contract will be processed. 
The planks’ validators are managed by 
people with a Stake or Masternode in the 
Connecting Network. If two or more planks 
va l idators  with in  ACRE approve the 
interchain transaction, the contract will be 
processed.



ACRE Coin anchors itself on fair-rewards 

for each and all layers of the users of 

ACRE’s  ecosystem,  f rom the  ear ly 

adopters to the future stakeholders. As 

each milestones is achieved by ACRE 

ac co rd i n g  to  i t s  ro ad m ap ,  a l l  t h e 

stakeholders of ACRE will be rewarded 

accordingly.



ACRE MASTERNODE 

HOLDER

. 
ACRE HODLER 

ACRE EARLY ADOPTER
Those who purchased ACRE Coin in pre sales will be entitled to a bonus of 10% 

extra on the collateral.

Stakeholder of ACRE who holds the ACRE Coin for a period of  two months 
or more will be rewarded bonus coins of 5% of their holdings.

q Due to Masternode Holder crucial responsibility to secure the network, 
85%  of  the  block  reward  will  go  to  Masternode  holders.  

q Eg.: if  the  block  reward  is  20  Acre  Coins,  17  will  be  rewarded  to  
the  Masternode  holder.  

q In  the  current  structure  of  Acre  Coin,  the  max  supply  will  be  
reached  within  7 years. 

q As  there  are  more  Masternodes  generated  daily,  more  of  the  static  
coin  supply  will  be  locked.  With  these  variables,  hyperinflation  
becomes  a  non-issue  and  the  coin  will  retain  value  greatly.

q Acre  Coin  will  reward  early  coin  holders  up  to  10,000%  per  year.



  

  

 

Algo

Quark 

Total Supply: 

25,000,000

MN requirement: 

5,000

Premine: 

250,000

Block time: 

60 seconds 

Block size: 

2MB

(154 transaction/s)

MASTERNODES

85 % 15 %

POS



Block Reward
premine   -    200  1,250 

instamine  201  1,201  1 
 1,202  25,000  20 

 25,001  48,500  15 
 48,501  135,000  20 

 135,001  350,000  15 
 350,001  550,000  10 
 550,001  3,943,121  5 



WEEK 1
WEEK 3

WEEK 15
WEEK 8

Launch of ACRE’s 

website and pre-

sales.

Implementation of ACRE 

Coin as payment system 

i n  l e g a c y  p r o p e r t y 

platform. 

Listing of 

cryptobridge and 

MNO

WEEK 5
WEEK 7

Launch of ACRE’s Property Website.

WEEK 9

Introduction of various joint-venture 

& partnerships with conventional 

property platforms.

WEEK 11

Listing at other exchanges such as 

Cryptopia, Coinexchange.

Bonus payouts for ACRE 

HOLDER and account 

taking for bonus.

Launch of ACRE’s Mobile Wallet.



The Founder of Acre Coin who has vast experience in the 

workings and intrinsic of property markets in particular 

South East Asia. A former member of Council for Estate 

Agencies  of  S ingapore who sees the potent ia l  of 

combining the emerging technology of blockchain with 

simplistic property getaway cater to one of the most 

populous region in the world.

Jason
A Real Estate Agent with an Estate Agency license 

awarded by the Board of Valuers, Appraisers and 

Estate Agents Malaysia (LPPEH) and himself the 

owner of the one of the biggest Real Estate Firm who 

has recruited 300 Real Estate Negotiators to engage 

in sale and rental of upmarket properties in Malaysia.

Desmond



Our blockchain developer who will be responsible for 

d e s i g n i n g ,  i m p l e m e nt i n g  a n d  s u p p o r t i n g  a 

distributed with extra layer of anonymity blockchain-

based network around our business model. He will 

also be responsible in designing our web-wallets, 

mobile wallets integrating our property getaway.

Desi Jeffrey
A pract ic ing  lawyer  in  Malays ia  wi th  a  long-

established background in real estate transactions and 

land law, regularly advise on land matters, housing 

and property developments, government compulsory 

acquisitions and joint development for housing and 

commercial properties.




