



































ample_wp_en_0112


ICO Process White Paper by AMPLE! Group
Promoting Cosplayer Professionalism 

Last Updated: 2017/12/3

Whitepaper version 1.4



2

Background

The animation market in Japan exceeded 1.8 trillion yen in 2015 amidst a record-breaking pace of sales over 
three consecutive years. The expanding market trend continues, putting annual value within reach of 2 trillion 
yen. 
Through the rapid penetration of VOD and other services future-forward, the distribution of Japanese animation 
content abroad is expected to increase; in turn, this growth will fuel the population growth of cosplayers around 
the globe. The cosplay and associated markets (enthusiasts’ groups, cosplay apparel, maid and cosplay 
services) have actually grown year on year to comprise a market today of 130 billion yen.

The portrait lighting function implemented on the iPhone8 (announced on September 13, 2017) and other 
advances to mobile cameras as of late suggest that the creative activities of cosplayers will occur more and 
more within an immediate arm’ s reach.

Alongside these recent trends described above, the cosplay platform AMPLE! launched in 2012 under the 
mantle of bringing people all around the world together through cosplay and has grown to host 70,000 photos 
posted by subscribers in 70 countries.
With the goal of evolving AMPLE! beyond a global cosplayer community through the introduction of AMPLE! 
Coin (ACO), a proprietary cryptocurrency, funding will be instituted through an initial coin offering (ICO).

About this ICO

ICO (Initial Coin Offering) is a method for procuring funds via the issuing and selling of original digital tokens. It 
is a different form of transferring equity than that of stocks, and is more similar to crowd funding in that you are 
simply purchasing tokens. At the time of sale for this token, it will not be recognized as Cryptcurrency. In order 
for it to be recognized as Cryptcurrency, you must first circulate the token through a Cryptcurrency exchange for 
it to become recognized as a Cryptcurrency. In other words, strictly speaking, ICO is not a method of raising 
funds, but is a sales method for cryptocurrency. As for the buyers, instead of an investor investing in a project, 
they are a buyer of the token.



Table of Contents

AMPLE! Ecosystem Structure

　　Overview of AMPLE!

　　Vision of AMPLE!

　　Stage Progression of Taking Vision to Fruition

　　Usage of Cryptocurrency

Markets

　　Animation Market

       Cosplay Market

Current Profile of AMPLE!

　　Number of Subscribers

       Breakdown by Country

       Number of Posted Photos

       SNS Account Impact

“AMPLE! Coin (ACO)”

       Description

       Issuance of ACO

       AMPLE! Market Engine

      Bonus Distribution to Contributors in ACO Economy

ICO Process

      Presale Overview

      Token Sale Overview

      Benefits to Early Buyers

      Benefits to Volume Buyers

Security Considerations

Consent to Covenants

Team

AMPLE! Group

Revision History

4

11

13

14

16

18

18

19

21

22

3



AMPLE! Ecosystem StructurⅠ.

The platform service AMPLE! is for cosplayers worldwide, and currently such cosplayers using the services are 
in Japan, North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, etc. The specialty site for cosplay posts emerged in October 
2012 to enable free expression of worlds held among cosplayers from around the world, and has operated with 
its purpose focused on compiling relatively high-quality cosplayer images. 
Currenty, the citizenship of users are from 70 countries, and number of posts of photos has reached 70,000, and 
the site continues to provide world-class cosplay images at high quality.

[AMPLE! Official site]  

4

Overview of AMPLE!

http://ample-cosplay.com/



To date, AMPLE! has operated its mission 

under the mantle of bringing people all around 

the world together through cosplay. The effort 

for the next few years will be to develop 

professional cosplayers.

Some cosplayers, in fact, have successfully 

turned their activities into a professional 

occupation; however, we believe there is 

considerable room for growth across the entire 

industry in this regard. As Youtubers have 

gained professional status, the entire cosplay 

market domain can be amplified to create a 

system to pay sufficient recompense that will 

lead to as many occupational cosplayers as 

possible.

Turning “Cosplayer” 
into a profession.

Vision of AMPLE!

5



6

Provisioning a platform to create an economy around cosplayers globally

The first course of action will be to provide tools that enable the 7,000 cosplayers currently registered to 
respectively procure funds. Fans will discover their favorite cosplayers located throughout the world and lend 
support with ACO, an easy wayto become a patron (supporter) of a particular cosplayer.

STAGE1

Cosplayers and fans connect virtually online as cosplayers express themselves freely on their own individual 
stage. Patrons can spend ACO to support their favorite cosplayers in real time. Plans call for active patrons to 
obtain exclusive offers from such cosplayers.

A!

Cosplayer

ACO

Sponsor

・Invitations to events
・Merchandise
・Discount of products

Stage Progression of Taking Vision to Fruition

Provisioning a platform to create an economy around 
cosplayers globally

Cosplayers transform into content and go global

Mainstreaming professional cosplayers

STAGE1

STAGE2

STAGE3



7

AMPLE! has previously instituted a loyalty program called AMPLE! Point System, whereby fans can send gifts to 
their favorite cosplayers. The points in circulation through this loyalty program, however, have been limited in 
usage for securing preferred publication space on AMPLE! The limitation has proven to be a bottleneck and a 
challenge that has thwarted circulation growth.
What happened? In the past, monetary and legal hurdles impeded our desires to achieve a world that could 
uphold our ideals. This ICO process will enable funding to clear these hurdles. As we learn from past mistakes, 
the circulation of cryptocurrency ACO will support global, supportive transactions that will generate diverse 
expression.
Moreover, as we strive to provide a world to enable free expression among cosplayers, those with particularly 
individualistic expression will be provided with a system to facilitate funding that will generate even more 
diverse expression.
When our ideal world is created, AMPLE! will have become the platform representing cosplayers in such a way 
as to create an economy around cosplayers.

Cosplayers transform into content and go global

Registered cosplayers will provide live commerce services that enable a straight-forward global development of 
their own content. Fans from around the world will gain convenient access to information about their favorite 
cosplayers, and AMPLE! will spawn numerous small economies around such cosplayers with this service.
The platform exploiting the latest technology will allow cosplayers to be their own curator and introduce various 
content and product as live video and VR video to their fans. Cosplayers to date have primarily performed in 
physical space, but with the latest technology the breadth of expression and means of delivering the art have 
enlarged. Consequently, cosplayers who couldn’ t gain exposure previously have an opportunity to portray their 
distinctive world and gain support from many more fans. The real-time connection afforded between adoring 
fans and their favorite cosplayers will enable fans to purchase such content with ACO.

STAGE2

Provisioning a system to deliver content expediently and globally for all cosplayers wherever they reside in the 
world will seed small economies centered on those cosplayers around the globe. We foresee communities 
emerging with distinctive character tuned to each cosplayer in these economies, a world where cosplayers and 
fans mutually support each other. This is the world we currently are contemplating.

A!

Cosplayer

ACO

SponsorLive video
Sponsorship Limited

Support & Purchasingoods



8

This process will solidify the status of AMPLE! as a platform that can generate cosplayer economies.

Mainstreaming professional cosplayers

AMPLE! intends to provide comprehensive support to cosplayers active on the platform. Funds procured for 
operations with take the form all efforts required in enhancing promotional activities and values for the entire 
cosplay industry.
In the process of cosplayers engaging in activities on the platform described above, support functions will 
become necessary. Consequently, AMPLE! intends to offer the following support to cosplayers worldwide.

STAGE3

●     Production and sales support of merchandise

DVDs, photobooks, and figures of cosplayers attaining 
a certain rating level within AMPLE! are produced for 
sale on a global marketplace.

●     Live event support

A system will be provided for live events to be held 
online through live streaming and VR technologies, 
so that distinctive cosplayer worlds can be shared 
globally.

●     Phototaking event support

Joint phototaking parties with popular cosplayers will 
be held periodically around the world.

●     Live-action anime

After entering into collaborative relationships with 
rights holders, popular animation content will be 
produced as live action movies on a popular layer 
and streamed on VOD services.



The support described provides a lineup approximating the function of a production company engaged across 
various domains. 

●     Stage performances

We will enter into collaborative relationships with 
rights holders and produce popular animation titles for 
the stage. Effective utilization of AR and sensor 
technologies will produce a stage integrated with the 
audience̶more than merely a platform.

●     Assembling of idol groups

Selected members will form idol groups as part of 
establishing the “cosplay idol” genre and engage in 
activit ies beyond the confines of particular 
countries

The function as production company, as well as the following business development will enable AMPLE! to 
contribute to further awareness and enhancement for the cosplay industry.

●     Large-scale events

Several renowned cosplay events exist around the 
world; plans here call for large-scale events with 
slightly changes in orientation to be held.

●     Alliance with events in other domains

Events like e-Sports not necessarily events familiar 
to the fan segments and fashion events supported 
by teen subscribers will be targetted for on-site 
assignment of cosplayers.

●     School established to support cosplayers.

In order to raise the bar across the entire industry, we 
will open a special school to support cosplayers. 
Currently, predecessors in the industry have achieved 
high standards in cosplay through individual trial and 
error. Structuring this expertise will lead to learning 
content available online and offline to people around 
the world.
Instruction curricula at this school include makeup, 
clothing and accessories, photography, space design, 
song, dance, voice talent, performance, programming, 
video production, music composition, and writing̶a 
diverse range. The purpose is to enable acquisition of 
professional skills associated with cosplay, anime, 
and manga. ACO can be used for receiving the 
education.
The opportunity to learn is provided not only to 
cosplayers, but others with interests in peripheral 
disciplines. The bar will rise for the cosplay industry, 
and the ACO economy will expand to peripheral 
domains.

●     Supplier of video anime and manga content 
with free copyrights

Cosplay typically involves a subject, a primary 
creative work, from which the individual work is 
created. Depending on circumstances of the rights 
owner, however, some works do not allow the 
desired cosplay activity.
AMPLE! is considering production in the future of 
content l ike videos, anime, and manga that 
cosplayers can use freely.
By generating primary creative works with free 
copyrights, AMPLE! can further support cosplayer 
activitites, and portray the world being promoted.

All of the processes above enable AMPLE! to mainstream occupational cosplayers

9



10

Usage of Cryptocurrency

The cryptocurrency AMPLE! coin (ACO) to be issued at this time will undergo circulation along the entire stream 
provided in the Stage Progression of Taking Vision to Fruition set forth above. ACO will be tendered across all 
layers worldwide for direct support, product sales, and admissions to exclusive events, and applied to diverse 
payment means in this space.

As shown in the figure, ACO is used chiefly among cosplayers and their supporting fans. We wish to enable 
ubiquitous usage of ACO in the space as currency. 
For this to happen, technical integration with other companies’ services without limitation to the AMPLE! 
platform will take place, while an enormous application array will be provided to cosplayers and fans on the 
AMPLE! platform. 
As cosplayers circulate ACO across the platform that enables unfettered expressions of their own worlds, they 
will enhance the quality of their creative activity, while strong ties between fans and their favorite cosplayers 
become possible. By connecting cosplayers and fans spread out globally through cryptocurrency unconstrained 
by national borders, the issuance of this cryptocurrency should contribute to enhancing the entire market, in our 
assessment.

ACO

Sponsor

Exclusive offers

AMPLE! as production
Training / Producing

ACOETH

Cosplayer

ACOMerchandiseMerchandise

External e-commerce site
 / Cosplay event

ACO



MarketsⅡ.

As stated in the Background, the animation market in Japan has grown to more than 1.8 trillion yen (TV, movies, 
videos, Internet delivery, and merchandising), and animation content sales overseas has grown to 35 billion yen.

Anime Market Growth and Japan Anime Content Export Value
(2016 Anime Industry Report, Association of Japanese Animations)

Animation Market

2,000 billion（USD）

1,500

1,000

500

0

2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015

Anime of market size（Billion）

40 billion（USD）

30

20

10

0

2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015

Export value（Billion）

Japanese animation, manga, and game content is believed to be slated for rapid worldwide penetration through 
expanded VOD services enabled via increasingly faster Internet connections. The production of high-budget 
live-action versions of Japanese animated series abroad such as the U.S. production of ONE PIECE, a project 
that boasts unprecedented production budget offers another indicator in this respect. 
ACO will ride on this wave of market expansion, and eventually aim to become a common currency for the 
purchase and sale of animation content throughout the world.

11



Cosplay Market

The cosplay and associated markets (enthusiasts’ association, cosplay apparel, maid and cosplay services) have 
actually grown year on year to comprise a market today of 130 billion yen.Famous cosplayers in Japan such as 
Enako and Otogi Nekomu have earned large profits on photobooks at spot sales targeting fan associations and 
signing official cosplayer contracts associated with advertising animations and games; the number of individuals 
engaged as occupational cosplayers has been increasing. 
With subscribers in 70 countries around the world, AMPLE! will introduce ACO to virtual gifts and product sales 
to create a professional cosplayer environment.

12



Current Profile of AMPLE!Ⅲ.

More than 7,200 registered cosplayers from 70 countries.

Number of Subscribers

13

Breakdown by Country

69,455 枚

Number of Posted Photos (as of Oct 2, 2017)

SNS Account Impact (as of October 2, 2017)

●     Facebook: 197,245
●     Twitter: 7,852
●     instagram: 5,816

27.2%
Japan

16.7%
Taiwan

8.1%
China

8.1%
Hong Kong

Indonesia

United States

Malaysia

Russia

Korea

Philippines

Singapore

Thailand

Mexico

Brazil

Australia

Argentina

Vietnam

Germany

Canada

5.3%

3.7%

2.2%

2.8%

2.5%

2.2%

2.1%

2.1%

2.0%

1.3%

1.3%

1.1%

1.0%

0.9%

0.8%



“AMPLE! Coin (ACO)”Ⅳ.

AMPLE! will issue the open source cryptocurrency called AMPLE! 
Coin (ACO). ACO will become the counted monetary unit for 
services to be settled within the AMPLE! economy, and the 
standard for interoperation with other digital services. 
ACO is anticipated to gain introduction into the public Ethereum 
block chain as an ERC20 token, and transactions to be made at 
the cryptocurrency exchange where ACO will be exchangeable 
and transferable like other cryptocurrencies.

Description

ACO allotted to AMPLE! upfront will 
be released in 10% parcels every 
three months. For terminological 
convenience, the system to manage 
this allotment of 400 million ACO is 
called AMPLE! Market Engine. At 
the initial phase, the AMPLE! Market 
Engine schema locks the 400 million 
ACO, which are unlocked under the 
prescribed timeline.

AMPLE!

Market Engine

ICO process

ACO Allotment

30% 30%

40%

Issuance of ACO

Of a total supply of 1 billion ACO, AMPLE! will distribute 300 million ACO in the ICO process. The proceeds of 
this process will be used for the operations, marketing, development, legal affairs, and structuring of a 
monitoring organization for AMPLE! and ACO. Another allotment of 300 million ACO will be initially placed with 
AMPLE (allocated to board members, angel investors, and advisors), and the remaining 400 million ACO will be 
strategically used to develop the AMPLE! economy over the long term.

14



AMPLE! Market Engine

ACO distributed within AMPLE! Market Engine are circulated according to the engine mechanism for continual 
development of the AMPLE! economy.

Purpose 

15

ACO distributed within AMPLE! Market Engine are released according to the initially defined timeline. From the 
moment the engine and new AMPLE! platform’ s main features are released, 12% of the remaining ACO balance 
is unlocked perennially, of which 1% is released each month over the course of that year. Released ACO are 
allocated to development, maintenance and operation of the engine at the minimum required percentage rate, 
and the bulk remaining is awarded as bonuses to contributors to the AMPLE! economy.

Supply Timeline

The new AMPLE! will rate influencers according to a proprietary index to assign monthly rankings (defined as 
AMPLE! Score for convenience here as the unit for rating measurements). AMPLE! scores will be awarded by a 
function that can comprehensively rate the following items.

Bonus Distribution to Contributors in ACO 

●     Image quality ●     Support spend ●     Merchandise purchase
●     Image posts ●     AMPLE! active ratio

Influencers will be ranked according to the standard of earned AMPLE! scores, and ranked influencers and their 
supporters will earn ACO bonus distributions. Several options exist for the specific rating method, which will be 
finalized after repeated hypothesis and validation after the renewed service goes live. 
The distribution ratio of influencer to supporters will be 1 : 1. For supporters, the proportion of support extended 
by any supporter to a respective influencer out of the total amount of support for any given month will be the 
proportion of bonus received out of the total bonus allocated to supporters of any influencer.



 ICO ProcessⅤ.

The AMPLE! ICO process is as follows: pre-sale, token sale, and listing on virtual currency exchange. The 
minimum target for proceeds obtained through the current process is set at [3030.303 ETH]. If the proceeds do 
not reach this figure, all ETH will be refunded. Even if the procurement amount is less than 100 million yen by 
rate at the end of token sale, we will refund it.(For rate calculation of ETH / JPY, refer to the value of CoinGecko 
(https://www.coingecko.com/).

16

Pre-sale Overview

●     Presale period (Japan Time):

November 15 (Wed.), 2017 12:00 ‒ November 30 (Thu.), 2017, 11:59

●     Transaction currency:

Ethereum（ETH）

●     Distribution price:

1 ETH =  1,650ACO

Token Sale Overview

●     Token sale period (Japan Time):

December 5 (Tue.), 2017 12:00 ‒ January 15 (Mon.), 2018, 11:59

●     Transaction currency:

Ethereum（ETH）

●     Distribution price:

1ETH = 1,100ACO



17

The Pre-sale subscribers may purchase ACO at 2/3 (1ETH = 1650 ACO) of the price to be offered at the token 
sale.Also from 28th October, we will conduct Premium Sale for limited investors who have passed the 
examination prior to pre-sales for the general public.  (The Premium Sale has been finished.)

Benefits to Early Buyers

Pre-sale rate ETH/ACO

Token sale rate ETH/ACO

1,650 ACO

1,100 ACO

Buyers of 150ETH or more are provided with a 10% bonus, and buyers of 300ETH or more are provided with a 
20% bonus. 

Benefits to Volume Buyers

less than 150 ETH

Pre-sale rate ETH/ACO

1,650 ACO

Token sale rate ETH/ACO

1,100 ACO

150 ETH ～

300 ETH ～

1,815 ACO

1,980 ACO

1,210 ACO

1,320 ACO



Security ConsiderationsⅥ.

Our technical team has previously been engaged in development requiring high-level security, including a joint 
project with a company listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and an e-Learning system and 
an Internet filing system respectively used by several hundred thousand people.
Although we hear daily about serious hacking damages related to ICO funding, we continue learning and 
applying lessons from the past to provide fully assured security measures using the combined knowledge of the 
group.

18

 Consent to CovenantsⅦ.

Detailed covenants that all sale subscribers must consent to will be disclosed on the official website before the 
start of the pre-sale. 



チームⅧ.

19

Genki Shimoda
CEO & CTO

Jun Ohyama
COO

Michael Sodaro
Engineering

Af te r  work ing  as  a  se rve r  s ide  
engineer  for  KAYAC Inc . ,  P iyon 
founded IREMONO Inc. Later, after 
selling web media FEELY, worked as a 
web server and media advisor for 
numerous businesses. His concept in 
life is, “Do the things you like, in the 
places you like, with the people you 
like.” At AMPLE!, Piyon is in charge of 
marketing.

Piyon Yumiyon
Marketing

Whi le  s t i l l  i n  Un ive rs i t y ,  Ke i ta  
participated in the establishment of 
an educational business. At the time, 
n e a r l y  8 0 0  m em b e r s  g a i n e d  
experience in building platforms for 
learning and site creation . In 2015, he 
jo ined a  des ign office where he 
designed the website for a major 
educational company and also worked 
on front end development. Afterwards, 
he changed jobs joining Hitomedia 
Inc .  who is  act ive ly  invo lved in  
investing in startups. He has had a 
hand in the design of corporate sites, 
service sites, landing pages, the 
UI/UX design of apps, as well as logo 
designs. At AMPLE!, Keita is in charge 
of design.

Keita Ishibashi
Design

Tomohiro joined Accenture after 
g raduat ing  f rom Univers i ty .  He 
engaged in project management, 
business planning strategy, and the 
support of new business launches. For 
his efforts, he obtained the highest 
internal performance rating (SA). In 
2016, he became fascinated with the 
c l imate and natura l  features of  
Miyazaki Prefecture, and moved there 
f rom Tokyo .  Af ter  h is  move ,  he  
established BAKEON Corp. where he 
mainly worked as a free consultant in 
charge of projects for national clients.  
Tomohiro is in charge of project 
management and engineering.

Tomohiro Sawai
Engineering

While studying at Aoyama Gakuin 
University, Genki actively to part in a 
venture company. After only two 
months with the company, he set the 
company record for highest sales. 
Genki then went on to be a part of 
several startups before becoming an 
engineer, and being put in charge of 
development. He is currently involved 
in the 0→1 technology management of 
5 services. In September 2017, he was 
appointed representative for AMPLE! 
Ltd.

After serving as director for a web 
production company, Jun was put in 
charge of new project planning and 
service management for Enigmo Inc. 
After  jo in ing Hitomedia Inc. ,  he 
became involved in the launching of 
new services, joint projects with other 
companies, and has participated in 
joint research with Keio University on 
industry-academia. Jun also provides 
to investee companies. In September 
2016, he was appointed director of 
AMPLE! Ltd.

Born in California, Michael has been 
involved with blockchain technology 
for over 7 years, and has even been 
i n v o l v e d  i n  s m a r t  c o n t r a c t  
development projects. He is part of 
the first graduating class of Code 
Chrysalis, Japan’ s first Silicon Valley 
style coding boot camp. At AMPLE!, 
Michael is in charge of digital token 
development.



20

Kohei Kobayashi
Service Disign & Community Management

Akihito Hama
PR

Kohei joined IREMONO Inc. as a 
director. While playing with nature he 
wo rked  t o  g r ow  web  se r v i c es .  
A f t e r w a r d s ,  h e  j o i n e d  D e S C  
Healthcare, Inc. were he was involved 
in editing work for the healthcare 
field. Currently he read manga and 
watches anime in Tokyo. At AMPLE!, 
Kohei is in charge of service design 
and community management.

Akihito joined Works Applications Co., 
Ltd. as an engineer. Afterwards, he 
engaged in IT education in Papua New 
Guinea as a JICA volunteer. After 
traveling around southeast and central 
Asia, he provided web services to the 
locals of Myanmar. While in Myanmar, 
he launched the Myanmar branch of 
the WCS (World Cosplay Summit) with 
t h e  h e l p  o f  t h e  l o c a l  c o s p l a y  
community. Akihito currently resides 
in  Tokyo  where  he  works  fo r  a  
company engaged in IT development. 
There, he is engaged in business in 
Myanmar, as well as throughout the 
rest  of  Asia .  He is  a lso act ively  
engaged in creating an environment in 
which cosplayers around the world 
can freely enjoy their activities to their 
hearts content.



AMPLE! GroupⅨ.

About us

21

●     Name

AMPLE Group.

●      address

B2F, 3-1-35, Moto-azabu, Minato-ku, Tokyo,

●     representative

Genki Shimoda

●     Description of business

The platform service for cosplayers

Oct 2012 Website launched under the concept for a simple, stylish cosplay site

History

June 2013 Launch of global development

April 2014 Over 40,000 image posts hosted

March 2015 Provisioning of AMPLE! Points starts

Oct 2015 Joint photo contest with Halloween event GLAY LiB CAFE 2015 HAPPY HALLOWEEN 
sponsored by GLAY

May 2017 Joint sponsorship of WCS Myanmar to develop cosplayers in new countries
Over 60,000 image posts hosted

Sep 2017 Announcement of funding through ICO process



Revision HistoryⅩ.

2017/11/06  p16 Changed the date of Pre-Sale and TokenSale (version 1.2)
2017/11/13  p16 Deleted the maximum supply of ACO at Pre-sale (version 1.3)
2017/11/13  p16 Deleted the minimum purchase quantity of ACO at Pre-Sale and TokenSale (version 1.3)
2017/11/13  p17 ACO/JPY → ETH/ACO (version 1.3)
2017/12/30  p16 fix typo (version 1.4)

22


