




































 
 
 
0xcert protocol 
Whitepaper 0.5 (draft) 

 
 
Authors: Kristijan Sedlak, Jure Zih, Mitja Pirc, Urban Osvald 
Date: December 31th, 2018 
Version: Draft Version 0.5  1

1 ​This version and its contents are current as of 2018-07-05​ ​and supersede all previous versions of this Whitepaper or any public 
statements made about 0xcert and the ZXC Token Sale and are subject to change. This English version is to be relied upon as the 
most accurate and updated as other language translations may have mistranslations and be outdated. 
 

 



Abstract 
 
Create, own, and validate unique assets on the blockchain with 0xcert - ​the first​ ​open 
protocol​ built to support the future of digital assets, powered by non-fungible tokens.  
 
The 0xcert protocol offers ​tools for building powerful dapps​, aimed at easy 
authentication and management of digital or real-world tangible assets (such as ID, 
educational certificate, in-game item or a house) on the blockchain. ​In addition to 
common functions for transferring and managing standard non-fungible tokens, the 
0xcert protocol provides ​another layer of conventions for creating certified 
non-fungible tokens for unique assets​. These tokens are called Xcerts and are created 
through a custom minting process. Xcerts represent opinionated non-fungible tokens, 
which also hold an imprint of an asset. With 0xcert protocol, we can validate a proof of 
existence, authenticity and ownership of these digital assets without third-party 
involvement.  
 
Due to the complexity of low-level blockchain solutions, the wide adoption of 
non-fungible tokes and blockchain in general is slower than it could be. The lack of 
conventions prevents interoperability among applications. Developers trying to 
develop their own decentralised application using non-fungible tokens face long 
development time and huge risk in their development process and security, lowering 
the overall efficiency and adoption rate. The resulting ecosystem of digital assets is 
under risk of  being fragmented, with non-interoperable dapps and underlying data. 
One of the major problems in the future may not be the technological barrier to issuing 
ownership rights of different unique assets on the blockchain, but rather the 
authenticity of issuing entities. Currently there is no mechanism to attest credible NFT 
issuers.  
 
The vision of 0xcert is to provide an ​open protocol for standardized and certified 
non-fungible tokens to a wider tech audience​. With 0xcert, you can build on top of the 
non-fungible token standard, employing a ​complete toolset, development framework, 
and a set of conventions for various use cases​. This results in shorter development 
time, lower risk and cuts cost associated with developing blockchain solutions. A wide 
range of decentralized applications and business models can be supported, giving 
companies the power to fully utilize the potential of blockchain technology. 0xcert is an 

1 



open source protocol that translates one-of-a-kind digital or real-world assets into 
non-fungible tokens (NFTs) - unique proof of ownership available from the blockchain. 
 
0xcert is a framework with a set of on-chain and off-chain rules for managing Xcerts 
and other standard non-fungible tokens. Our mission is to equip application developers 
with a secure blockchain agnostic platform, powerful tools and community embraced 
conventions for managing non-fungible tokens. 0xcert is a pluggable settlement with 
an advanced integration layer for different dapps and relay applications. This enables 
developers to focus on the application layer and quickly build applications for issuing 
university certificates, KYC applications, applications for loyalty programs, warranties, 
badges, credits or even a decentralized non-fungible exchange. 
 
A key role in the 0xcert infrastructure is played by the ZXC utility tokens. These are 
fungible tokens that are compliant with Ethereum’s ERC-20 standard. The ZXC token 
will be utilized to support dapps built on top of the 0xcert protocol with minimum 
possible fees. Since 0xcert is an open source project that strives to be community 
driven, a decentralized governance model could be introduced as well.  
 
We recognize that one of the fundamental problems in the blockchain space may 
become the authenticity of issuers in the future. A decentralized issuer verification 
registry may be an acceptable and self-sustaining solution to the problem. The 
community would have an option to either verify or reject new Xcert issuers through a 
staking and rewarding mechanism based on the ZXC token. 
 
Furthermore, 0xcert is also building out a whole ecosystem of parties involved in the 
non-fungible space, as well as specific application developers, companies from various 
verticals, researchers, organisations and communities. Planned growth activities will 
not only positively impact and extend further adoption of technologies developed by 
0xcert, but also expand the scientific horizon of non-fungible tokens in general.  
 
 

Disclaimer 
 
This Whitepaper has been issued by 0xcert d.o.o. (the “Company”) and should be read 
in conjunction with the Company’s terms and conditions (the “Terms”). 
 

2 



The purpose of this Whitepaper is to provide prospective purchasers with the 
information on the Company’s project to allow the prospective purchasers to make 
their own decision as to whether or not they wish to proceed to purchase a ZXC token. 
This Whitepaper does not constitute an offer or invitation, sale or purchase of shares, 
securities or any of the assets of the Company. 
 
As of the date of this Whitepaper, the information contained herein is accurate to the 
best of the management team’s knowledge and there are no other facts of omission, 
which would make any misleading statements in this Whitepaper. No representation, 
warranty, assurance or undertaking is made as to its continued accuracy after such 
date. The information contained in this Whitepaper may be subject to modification, 
supplementation and amendment at any time moving forward and would be 
documented accordingly. In addition new information might be added in the future.  
 
This Whitepaper describes the Company’s business objectives and the issue by the 
Company of ZXC tokens. It has not been reviewed, verified, approved or authorized by 
any regulatory or supervisory authority. 
 
The publication of this Whitepaper and the offering of ZXC tokens may be restricted in 
certain jurisdictions. It is the responsibility of any person in possession of this 
Whitepaper and any persons wishing to make an application for ZXC tokens (pursuant 
to the Terms) to inform themselves of and to observe any and all laws and regulations 
that may be applicable to them. 
 
This Whitepaper does not constitute an offer or solicitation to anyone in any 
jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not lawful or in which the person 
making such offer or solicitation is not qualified to do so. 
 
Prospective purchasers of ZXC tokens should inform themselves as to the legal 
requirements and consequences of purchasing, holding and disposing of ZXC tokens 
and any applicable exchange control regulations and taxes in the countries of their 
respective citizenship, residence and/or domicile. 
 
Prospective purchasers of ZXC tokens are wholly responsible for ensuring that all 
aspects of this Whitepaper and the Terms are acceptable to them. The purchase of ZXC 
tokens may involve special risks that could lead to a loss of a substantial portion or a 
loss of the entire purchase amount. The purchase of ZXC tokens is considered 
speculative in nature and it involves a high degree of risk. The Company does not 
represent, warrant, undertake or assure that the ZXC tokens are defect/virus free or 

3 



will meet any specific requirements of a prospective purchaser. You should only 
purchase ZXC tokens if you can afford a complete loss. Unless you fully understand and 
accept the nature of and the potential risks inherent in the purchase of ZXC tokens, you 
should not purchase ZXC tokens. 
 
The purchase of ZXC tokens is only possible after the prospective purchaser has read, 
understood and accepted the Terms. Each prospective purchaser will be required to 
acknowledge that they made an independent decision to purchase the ZXC tokens and 
that they are not relying, in any manner whatsoever, on the Company, the management 
team or any other person or entity (other than such purchaser’s own advisers). 
Prospective purchasers are urged to consult their own legal, tax or other advisor before 
purchasing ZXC tokens. 
 
The Company and the management team do not provide any advice or 
recommendations with respect to the ZXC tokens, endorse such tokens, nor do they 
accept any responsibility or liability for any use of this Whitepaper by any person which 
is in breach of any local regulatory requirements with regard to the distribution of this 
Whitepaper or any applicable rules pertaining to the offer of ZXC tokens. 
 
To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations and rules, the 
Company, its founders, team members and any third parties involved in the Company’s 
project shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other 
losses of any kind. Furthermore, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited 
to loss of revenue, income or profits and loss of use or data), arising out of or in 
connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper. 
 
All statements regarding the Company’s financial position, business strategies, plans 
and prospects of the industry which the Company is in are forward looking statements. 
Neither the Company, its founders, team members or any third parties involved in the 
Company’s project nor any other persons represent, warrant, undertake that the actual 
future results, performance or achievements of the Company will be as discussed in 
these forward looking statements. 
 
This Whitepaper includes market and industry information and forecasts, which the 
Company obtained from internal surveys, reports and studies where appropriate, as 
well as market research, publicly available information and industry publications. Such 
surveys, reports, studies, market research, publicly available information and 
publications state that the information that they contain has come from sources 

4 



deemed reliable; there is no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such 
included information. 
 
The Company does not make or purport to make any disclaims, any representation, 
warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person. Including any 
representation, warranty or undertaking about the truth, accuracy, and completeness 
of any of the information set out in this Whitepaper. 
 
Statements made in this Whitepaper are based on the law and practice currently in 
force in Slovenia, which is a country in the European Union and are subject to changes 
in accordance with said laws. 
 
 

   

5 



Table of Content 
 
Abstract 1 

Disclaimer 2 

Table of Content 6 

1. Introduction and Vision 8 

2. Opportunity 10 

3. Solution 12 

4. 0xcert Protocol 15 
4.1 Overview 15 

4.1.1 Fungibility 17 
4.1.2 Decentralization 18 

4.2 Specification 19 
4.3. Xcert 20 
4.3 Framework 21 

4.3.1 Devkit (SDK) 22 
4.3.2 Decentralized exchange 22 
4.3.3 Decentralized minter 23 
4.3.4 Continuous integration 23 

5. Use cases 24 
5.1 KYC 24 
5.2 Academic credentials 25 
5.3 Art 26 
5.4 Collectibles 27 

6. Ecosystem 29 
6.1 Participants 31 
6.2 Promotion & Growth 31 
6.3 Partnerships 31 
6.4 Ecosystem Growth Pool 34 

7. Token economy 35 
7.1 Token purpose and Use cases 35 

7.1.1 ZXC within dapps 35 
6 



7.1.2 Decentralized governance 36 
7.1.3 Issuer Verification Registry (IVR) 36 

7.2 Implementation 37 

8. Structure 38 
8.1 Corporation Structure 38 
8.2 Governance 38 
8.3 Token 39 
8.4 Exchanges 40 
8.5 Voting 40 

9. The business side of things 41 
9.1 Business model 41 
9.2 Go-to-market strategy 41 
9.3 Competitive landscape 42 

10. Timeline 43 
10.1 Development roadmap 43 
10.2 Milestones 44 

11. Token distribution event 45 
11.1 Token and crowdsale info 45 
11.2 Token distribution 46 
11.3 Distribution schedule 47 
11.4 Participation in the token sale 48 
11.5 Funds allocation 49 

12. Team 51 
12.1 Team 51 
11.2 Advisors 52 

Disclaimer 54 
 
 
 

   

7 



1. Introduction and Vision 
 
We are living in one of the most exciting times since the beginning of the Internet. The 
advent of blockchain has redefined technology and set the course for the future of 
everything. Banking, insurance, advertising as well as many other industries are 
adopting this new paradigm of governance through a new concept introduced by 
Satoshi Nakamoto back in 2007. 
 
Although blockchain’s utility has expanded to numerous use-cases, the core value of 
the technology remains. It is a tamper-proof, transparent and secure decentralized 
ledger that maintains a list of records that cannot be altered retroactively. Blockchain 
was first built for the financial capital; now it is ready to take on social and professional 
capital: achievements, qualifications, accreditations, credentials and certification. 
 
But the really exciting paradigm shift comes with blockchain’s ability to tap into the 
physical world.​ With the introduction of unique decentralized assets presented as 
non-fungible tokens , the idea of storing intangible assets such as copyrights, patents 2
and goodwill, as well as tangible assets such as property, equipment and inventory is 
now possible like never before. 
 
With the emergence of different business opportunities related to the tokenization of 
physical assets, there is a ​growing need for standardization and a base protocol that 
would allow for simple proof-validation of its existence, authenticity and ownership. 
Furthermore, the future of a new technology of this magnitude should be made 
available to everyone. 
 
The vision of 0xcert is to provide an open protocol for non-fungible tokens to a wider 
tech audience. With its help, we can drastically shorten development time, decrease 
risk and cut costs associated with developing blockchain solutions. ​ A wide range of 
decentralized applications (dapps) and business models can be supported, giving 
companies the power to fully utilize the potential of blockchain technology. 
Non-blockchain companies will be able to make use of a decentralized and distributed 
ledger to easily incorporate the non-fungible technological features into their 
applications while not requiring their development team to be proficient in low-level 
blockchain programming.  
 

2 ​E.g. ERC721 standard on the Ethereum blockchain. 

8 



 
Blockchain is moving faster than anyone dared to predict. With the 0xcert protocol, we 
are opening the door for all in this important time in history, where everything you own, 
not just financial assets, will now have a way to exist securely in your digital wallet. 
 

   

9 



2. Opportunity 
 
The most common tokens of today's crypto economy follow the Ethereum's ERC-20 
specification. These tokens are used for a specifically defined utility within predefined 
systems and thus carry value. Tokens that are issued by the same source are identical 
and mutually interchangeable. This characteristic is called fungibility, hence these 
tokens are called fungible tokens. Token holders can buy and sell these tokens on 
exchanges, which is also the primary mechanism of their price valuation. 
 

 
 
Recently, another form of tokens, called ​non-fungible tokens (NFTs​), started getting 
attention in the crypto community. Non-fungible digital assets represent the next stage 
in the blockchain evolution. The first good use case for NFTs was introduced with 
CryptoKitties. These were one of the first popular crypto-collectables: assets that were 
unique and could be stored in your Ethereum wallet. You could buy, sell, trade and even 
breed them. Later on the Ethereum implementation proposal 721 (EIP-721) got 
introduced and confirmed got confirmed as an Ethereum standard (ERC-721) in March 
2018. 
 
NFTs have the potential to improve many applications and enhance existing business 
models. ​For the first time, users are actually able to hold distinguishable tokens that 
carry not only value, but also unique information in their blockchain wallet. 
Numerous companies from different verticals are looking into this new technology as a 
solution for what was previously not possible on the blockchain. According to OpenSea3
, three new companies a day are starting to do an implementation with the NFTs. NFT 
use cases range from identities (KYC), collectibles, to education certificates and more. 
 
 

3 ​Source: Keynote from OpenSea, 3/23/2018 at the event Explore 721 Dallas 

10 



However, there are four major challenges we see that hinder the development and 
adoption of NFTs as well as enabling greater technological and business impact: 

1. Low speed of development: ​due to the lack of a pluggable framework, the 
development of dapps can take months therefore severely increasing 
go-to-market time, which results in much slower adoption and increases 
competitive risks. 

2. Lack of conventions and interoperability:​ different verticals require different 
conventions which are currently missing to ensure interoperability. Equally 
important is the gap of interoperability between applications, which needs to be 
addressed in order to maximize adoption and business impact. 

3. Missing registry of verified issuers: ​a big missing part is a registry of issuers of 
NFTs, which would serve for authentication and validity of the issuers. Creating a 
common registry will reduce verification time as well as reduce business risks. 

4. Limited open-source and blockchain-agnostic solutions: ​ current NFT 
applications are siloed for specific purposes and currently Ethereum-focused, 
but with opportunities emerging in other blockchains (EOS, NEO) too. The 
opportunity to have an open source and blockchain agnostic protocol will open 
far greater opportunities for dapps and usage of NFTs. 

 
Furthermore, there is a need for a unifying technological layer connecting these 
assets through a higher-level standardization model. ​Building on top of the existing 
low-level technology would mean that each development team builds their own 
framework from scratch. The work gets repeated every time and each solution has to 
perform a separate audit. There are currently no processes and rules in place that 
would allow for a faster, secure and interoperable issuance and verification of these 
assets, consequently hindering the potential for wider adoption. 
 
2018 is frequently called the year of NFTs and the timing for the 0xcert protocol is now. 
With the ERC-721 in place, we believe that there is a solid foundation for NFTs, resulting 
in an increased demand for a quickly deployable and effective development 
environment. We believe that the need for the 0xcert protocol will be driven on both 
the demand and supply side, notably for: 

a) End users, which will require at least parts of blockchain and NFT functionality 
b) Developers and service providers, which will require faster and more secure 

development tools to remain competitive in the market. 
 

11 



3. Solution 
 
The 0xcert protocol utilizes the blockchain, a distributed ledger technology that was 
first built to support the Bitcoin cryptocurrency. Blockchain can be best described as a 
distributed ledger that maintains a list of records called blocks. Each block has a 
timestamp and is built on top of an already existing block, preventing any data from 
being altered retroactively. 
 
Blockchain offers a unique way of solving the problem of secure online transactions 
and double spending. Due to its transparency and distribution of information to many 
decentralized blockchain nodes, it is nearly impossible to manipulate or duplicate 
existing data records, making it potentially suitable for recording events, records, 
identities, certificates, transactions and other documentation. 
 
0xcert provides a framework with a set of on- and off-chain rules for managing 
xcerts - standardized and certified non-fungible tokens. Our mission is to equip 
application developers with a secure blockchain settlement, powerful tools, and 
community embraced conventions for managing the NFTs. 
 
Key characteristics of the 0xcert protocol can be outlined in four larger dimensions: 
 

 
1. Pluggable settlement for faster development 
 

The 0xcert protocol is a solid pluggable settlement which supports numerous 
business models. It clears away the low-level blockchain complexity thanks to its 
solid and flexible infrastructure that ensures interoperability between dapps by 
default. 
 
Using a plug-and-play framework shortens the development time from 
months to days. ​Readily available APIs and SDKs in Python, Ruby, NodeJS and 
Javascript will allow traditional developers to start building blockchain 
applications right away. 

12 



 

 
2. Conventions for data interoperability and standardisation  
 

The 0xcert protocol provides conventions for minting certified non-fungible 
tokens for unique assets. ​With the use of the protocol, proof of an asset can be 
written into the token directly. These proofs are built following 
industry-specific conventions and enable data interoperability among various 
applications.  
 
With the help of the community, we are structurally establishing a minimum 
standard that prevents data-siloing and poor user experience with future 
implementations. 
 

 
3. Decentralized verification registry through curated registries 
 

An important piece of the proposed protocol will be authenticating and assuring 
the validity of issuers building with the 0xcert protocol. Each NFT issued 
requires a deployed main (token) contract and a mechanism that will attest the 
validity and the issuers identity.  
 
We are proposing a token curated registry to pursue a decentralized approach 
in validating the issuers of NFTs​. Ultimately, a new issuer would stake a portion 
of tokens to get listed, while the existing holders will have the ability to approve 
or challenge the listing. 
 
 

 

13 



 
4. Open source and blockchain agnostic 
 

0xcert is an open-source and community driven project. Its first implementation 
is built on Ethereum. However, due to the blockchain-agnostic nature of the 
protocol, expansion to other blockchains will follow.  
 
The protocol may also include a decentralized governance (DAO) mechanism to 
allow the community to vote for further improvements. Because the project is 
open-source, the community will also be able to rely on industry experts for 
specific conventions in particular verticals. This in turn may positively impact 
growth of new business models built on top of the protocol. 

 

   

14 



4. 0xcert Protocol 
 
0xcert is an open-source permissionless protocol for non-fungible tokens on the 
blockchain. These tokens are stored in cryptographic wallets and are owned by users. 
In addition to various common functions for transferring and managing standard 
non-fungible tokens, the 0xcert protocol provides an additional layer of conventions 
for creating non-fungible tokens from unique assets. These tokens are called Xcerts 
and are created through a custom minting process. 
 
Xcerts represent standard non-fungible tokens, which also hold an imprint of an asset. 
With the 0xcert protocol, we can further validate proof of existence, authenticity and 
ownership of these assets without third-party involvement. 
 
As opposed to Xcerts, which are non-fungible tokens, the 0xcert protocol also makes 
use of a fungible ERC-20 utility token, called ZXC. Xcerts are all unique tokens that 
carry certain information, whereas ZXC tokens are uniform and are used for various 
utilities described later in the document. 
 
The first implementation of the 0xcert protocol is focusing on the Ethereum 
blockchain. The 0xcert protocol is designed to be blockchain agnostic, and supports 
building on other blockchains as well. 
 
In this section, we will provide on overview of basic principles of 0xcert protocol with 
focus on non fungibles and decentralization. This is followed by a specification of the 
0xcert protocol and framework. The section concludes with description of framework 
parts: Devkit, decentralized exchange and decentralized miner.  
 

4.1 Overview 
The advent of blockchain has redefined technology and set the course for the future of 
everything. But despite being an amazing technology, it is also very complex in nature. 
Writing and deploying smart contracts is difficult and can be a very perilous task. This 
fact prevents many people from adopting blockchain technology and building their 
decentralized applications on top of it.  
 

15 



Our mission is to equip application developers with a secure blockchain settlement, 
powerful tools and community embraced conventions for managing non-fungible 
tokens. 0xcert protocol extends the non-fungible paradigm with an opinionated 
certification and standardization layer for unique assets, which is based on the 0xcert 
conventions. This allows for creating certified non-fungible tokens on the blockchain, 
which also carry an imprint of a unique real-world asset.  
 
The protocol supports a wide range of use cases where non-fungible assets and 
ownership play a role. Because the data are stored in decentralized blocks, the 
information can be fully trusted and verified by anyone and anywhere.  
 
The 0xcert protocol is an open-source project so anyone can use the fully functional 
0xcert protocol with no limitations. Developers have the ability to manually mint, burn, 
verify and transfer Xcerts. The protocol uses a publicly accessible network of digital 
wallets and smart contracts on the blockchain, making it extensible through third-party 
modules and a variety of dapps. 
 

 
 

Figure 1 : 0xcert protocol can act as an intermediary between parties. 
 
0xcert is an opinionated framework and supports numerous business models used by 
third-party dapps. These applications sit on top of the protocol and can use the 
protocol tokens as a fuel for their service.  
 

16 



The dapps form a network of public and private services for unique assets and offer 
higher-level features that simplify and automate the process of creating and managing 
non-fungible tokens, provide public and private listings, rewarding mechanisms, 
integration gateways and more. 
 

4.1.1 Fungibility 
 
The most common tokens of today’s crypto economy follow Ethereum’s ERC-20 
specification. These tokens are so-called fungible tokens, because tokens of the same 
kind can be mutually interchangeable. If we make an analogy with fiat currency, a dollar 
bill can be exchanged for any other dollar bill, which does not create any difference for 
the holder.  
 
Recently, another kind of token called non-fungible tokens started getting attention in 
the crypto community. Though we knew non-fungible tokens before, it actually all 
started with Crypto Kitties - tradable collectibles, which set the foundation for the now 
accepted ERC-721 standard. Unlike the ERC-20 identical tokens, the non-fungible 
tokens are unique and carry data.  
 
The 0xcert protocol goes even further and introduces an Xcert as a standardized and 
certified non-fungible token based on ERC-721 and 0xcert conventions that carries 
information about a particular unique asset. This mechanism is unique to the 0xcert 
protocol and is described in later sections. 
 
ERC-721 has given us an incredibly powerful standard on the Ethereum network - 
non-fungible tokens. The 0xcert protocol extends this standard and makes it 
opinionated. This will drastically shorten development times. For example, think about 
what Rails did for Ruby. 0xcert is dealing with the application layer where developers 
need to act fast and agile. In order to ensure interoperability among applications in the 
future, Xcerts follow specific conventions. This will prevent incompatibility on a higher 
level, which might happen if every NFT issuer deploys their own version of an industry 
standard. Having this level of standardization built on top of a strong ERC-721 standard 
prevents high level fragmentation and safeguards long-term sustainability.  

17 



 
 

4.1.2 Decentralization 
The protocol utilizes the blockchain, a distributed ledger technology that was first built 
to support the Bitcoin cryptocurrency. Blockchain is best described as a distributed 
ledger that maintains a list of records called blocks. Each block has a timestamp and is 
built on top of an already existing block, preventing any data from being altered 
retroactively. 
 
Blockchain offers a unique solution to the problem of secure online transactions. Due 
to its transparency and distribution of information to many decentralized blockchain 
nodes, it is nearly impossible to manipulate existing data records, making it potentially 
suitable for recording events, records, identities, certificates, transactions and other 
documentation. 
 

 
Figure2: 0xcert protocol uses blockchain to enable decentralization 

18 



 
By storing hashed data on the blockchain, individuals, companies and institutions can 
keep a decentralized record of their asset proofs, while maintaining sensitive data 
completely private. At the same time, all certified records, their issuers, and owners can 
be easily authenticated and referenced. 
 
 

4.2 Specification 
 
0xcert provides a framework with a set of on-chain and off-chain rules for managing 
Xcerts and other non-fungible tokens. In addition, the 0xcert protocol is a pluggable 
settlement with an advanced integration layer for different dapps and relay 
applications. 
 

19 



 
 
Figure 3: Users can interact with the protocol manually or through higher-level dapps. 

 

4.3. Xcert 
Digital assets on the blockchain as non-fungible tokens represent a new paradigm, 
which enables application developers to build advanced and secure applications for 

20 



managing real-world assets. Users hold asset ownership rights in their cryptographic 
wallets. They are able to exchange tokens between wallets and have control over the 
tokens they own.  
 
The 0xcert protocol puts unique assets on the blockchain as non-fungible tokens. 
These tokens are called Xcerts and exist on the blockchain as an item of a specifically 
designed smart contract.  
 
Xcerts are items of a specifically designed smart contract which implements the 
non-fungible functionality. An Xcert is identified by an ID, which is unique per Xcert 
smart contract and is always assigned to a cryptographic wallet. Besides the unique ID, 
a token can carry proof of a digital asset, arbitrary onchain data and a URI to additional 
off-chain data. 
 
An Xcert smart contract is an extended non-fungible token smart contract. It follows 
the Ethereum’s ERC-721 specification making it compliant with the non-fungible token 
standard. Furthermore, an Xcert smart contract holds assets of a particular 0xcert 
convention. This makes the contract opinionated and forces predictable data. 
 
The process of converting unique asset data into a cryptographic proof is called 
"certification". Tokens that hold these cryptographic proofs are thus called certified 
tokens. 

4.3 Framework 
 
In general, software frameworks provide a standard way to build and deploy 
applications. The goal is to simplify the development process and allow programmers 
to avoid low-level details altogether by providing a working system - a framework. 
Better known frameworks include Rails (Ruby), Django (Python), Laravel (PHP) and 
Sails.js (Node.js). 
 
The 0xcert framework consists of multiple parts, which enable application developers 
to build secure decentralized applications with the support for custom business 
models. The 0xcert protocol is an opinionated all-in-one framework. It is blockchain 
agnostic, provides conventions and includes powerful tools for building decentralized 
non-fungible applications.  
 

21 



In addition to the raw protocol logic, the 0xcert framework includes libraries and a set 
of smart contracts already installed on the blockchain. The 0xcert framework is a 
pluggable settlement with an advanced integration layer for different dapps and relay 
applications. 
 

 
Figure 4: Dapps on top of the 0xcert protocol form a network of interoperable 

non-fungible services. 
 

4.3.1 Devkit (SDK) 
 
The framework tries to hide away the complex blockchain layer thereby wrapping the 
0xcert protocol features into an easy to use SDK. This empowers developers with 
powerful decentralized tools that they can use as a standard API library.  
 
The 0xcert protocol can therefore be easily integrated into existing systems. 
Applications don't have to struggle with the low-level blockchain complexity and can 
immediately start using a solid, secure and flexible non-fungible infrastructure that 
ensures interoperability between dapps by default. 
 

4.3.2 Decentralized exchange 
 
DEX is one of the key supporting components in the 0xcert framework. DEX represents 
a set of smart contracts installed on the blockchain which allow for a trustless 

22 



exchange of multiple different types of fungible and non-fungible tokens as single 
atomic operations.  
 
DEX consists of multiple contracts. To make it upgradeable, the smart contracts 
communicate through proxy smart contracts. This way we can upgrade the core DEX 
contracts while the data is kept untouched.  
 
A proxy is best explained as a smart contract that allows or rejects access to some key 
functionality and is controlled by a multisig wallet or a DAO. This way proxies can be 
trusted since they only allow access to smart contracts that were approved through the 
DAO process. 
 

4.3.3 Decentralized minter 
 
DXM is another important component of the 0xcert framework. It allows for the 
trustless minting of Xcert tokens directly to recipients.  
 
The DXM can mint and exchange Xcert tokens for other fungible and non-fungible 
tokens in a single atomic operation. It also enables an issuer to delegate the mint 
execution and payment of blockchain fees to the recipient.  
 
DXM consists of multiple contracts. To make it upgradeable, the smart contracts 
communicate through proxy smart contracts. This way we can upgrade the core DXM 
contracts while the data is kept untouched. 
 

4.3.4 Continuous integration 
 
A smart contract cannot be changed after it is deployed to the blockchain. Changes can 
be applied only by deploying a new contract at a new address.  
 
The protocol may include a decentralized governance (DAO) mechanism to allow the 
community to vote for improvements and possibly fork the protocol into multiple 
versions. The contracts may use protocol tokens to securely drive a decentralized 
continuous integration of updates with no disruption, while also protecting all the 
parties and stakeholders. 
 

23 



5. Use cases 
 
The 0xcert protocol is best described as the underlying technological base layer upon 
which new use cases can be built. Developers will no longer need to have advanced 
Solidity skills to create blockchain based solutions for unique assets. The simple to use 
libraries allow for fast and safe production, which in turn allow for more creativity and 
flexibility with subsequent solutions.  
 
Below are some examples of use cases where the 0xcert protocol might prove to be 
useful. It is worth pointing out that this is not a final list of future implementations, but 
rather a quick overview of potential verticals that can benefit from the non-fungible 
technology.  
 

5.1 KYC 
 
As the “Know Your Customer” procedure becomes more and more important for ICOs, 
there is a growing demand for simple, cost-effective and secure solutions. Currently 
there are many KYC providers on the market, but none of them utilize the powerful of 
ERC-721 standard for non-fungible tokens.  
 
With the help of the new standard, users can obtain a reusable KYC token, which can be 
stored and used for every subsequent KYC request. Users simply submit personal data 
to their KYC provider from which a secure hash is generated. This hashed information 
can then be sent in the form of an Xcert to their Ethereum wallet. By interacting with a 
dapp (e.g. through Metamask), ICOs will be able to whitelist wallets that have 
previously passed the KYC procedure and hold a valid KYC Xcert token.  
 
 
 

   

24 



5.2 Academic credentials  
 
Although technology has helped to improve the education and academic sector 
immensely, it has not solved major pain points: certification fraud, interoperability and 
credentials verification remain unsolved questions that in turn delegitimize 
certification institutions, impair international mobility and incur huge costs for all 
parties involved. The authentication and verification process can benefit greatly from 
blockchain technology.  
 
By storing records of achievements, accomplishments, certifications and education 
degrees on the blockchain, users can keep a decentralized record of their certificates 
from both academic institutions and professional certifying bodies that can be easily 
attested. 
 
There are three major parties in the academic credentials space: issuers (universities, 
MOOCs, ...), holders (students that successfully finished a degree or course) and 
verifiers (parties that need to verify the authenticity of the academic credential, such 
as employers or LinkedIn). 
 
With the help of the 0xcert protocol, issuers can seamlessly issue academic credentials 
to the holder’s digital wallet. From each academic achievement, a hash string can be 
created and stored as an Xcert. The non-fungible token that carries the hash string is 
sent to the holder’s wallet and stored as proof for future use. As opposed to previous 
solutions where the hash string was stored directly on the blockchain as a transaction, 
users now receive an actual unique digital asset.  
 
Xcerts provide a much more flexible solution than a simple transaction on the 
blockchain. They can be reissued, have an expiry date and can be easily verified. Just 
imagine that an error was made when issuing an academic degree, which is then 
forever stored on the blockchain. Having the flexibility to reissue it allows for a small 
margin of error.  
 
Certain continuing professional development (CPDs) also need to be renewed and often 
come with an expiry date. This would be extremely problematic without non-fungible 
tokens. Having that flexibility where an expiry date can be set to a certificate opens up 
a whole new space for new verticals and business models. 
 

25 



 

5.3 Art 
 
Pieces of art are an important part of our cultural tradition; we could even say that it 
makes us human. Unfortunately, artwork is often the target of forgery, scams and 
fraud. Cases where entire collections were found to be forged are plentiful and have 
been a repetitive pattern throughout history.  
 
The art industry is one of the largest unregulated markets, therefore investigating 
authenticity is strongly advised for buyers prior to a purchase. First, by performing 
extensive due diligence with the help of independent third parties. Second, with 
provenance investigation or history of ownership, the details about previous owners 
can be tracked in documents or other sources.  4
 
For the first time in history, the art world has a chance to transfer ownership rights 
onto a medium, which cannot be altered and falsified. Provenance can easily be traced 
and viewed for the entire history of each work of art.  
 
The process can be easily achieved with the 0xcert protocol. Data about an asset, e.g. 
Certificate of Authenticity (COA) , is digitized using a specific convention, stored in 5
cryptographic wallets and owned by their users. The detailed data itself can be 
accessed only by the owners. However, its existence, authenticity and ownership can, in 
turn, be examined and validated by the interested public without any third-party 
involvement.  
 
This opens up a whole new space for artists. Not only provenance and forgery 
prevention, but also with blockchain technology a whole new concept is possible - 
fractional ownership.  
 
 
  
 

4 ​https://medium.com/0xcert/millions-art-fakes-and-blockchain-7a7cb80a52a  
5 http://www.artbusiness.com/certaut.html  

26 



5.4 Collectibles 
 
From sports cards to Crypto Kitties, these are just a few forms of collectibles. When 
talking about collectible cards in the physical world, many different options come to 
mind: baseball cards, airplane cards, tradable collectible games (TCG), etc.  
 
Whatever the case may be, serious collectors are interested in vintage cards. Among 
those, the highest values are attributed to rookie cards, inserts, sets and unopened 
sets. Other major factors collectors would consider when determining a card’s value are 
its age, origin, condition, scarcity and of course, the featured player. The rarest cards 
usually come from limited editions and are among the oldest on the market. Values of 
these cards span from a few dollars to a few million dollars. 
 
In order for a collector to get the most accurate price estimation, several sources of 
examination and grading are required. Major sports cards grading and autograph 
authentication authorities, such as Beckett , PSA , and Collectors Universe , now rely 6 7 8
their grading business mostly on online demand, while several guides for pricing are 
issued by Price Guide  and Krause Publications , editing Tuff Stuff  magazine and 9 10 11
Sports Collectors Digest . 12
 
In addition, collectors also need to care of various aspects like the total amount of 
specific cards on the market, the number of collectors, amount of available ownership 
data, card provenance and of course the price.  
 
Projects like Crypto Kitties are basically digitizing the very essence of the card 
collectors hobby, which is the joy of owning something unique and the thrill of 
comparing or even trading it with others. Even though card editions are issued in many 
hundreds of (equal) pieces, as soon as they land into the hands of a new owner,, their 
value cannot be measured as a static feature. 
 
With help from the 0xcert protocol, we can now easily translate real world asset 
ownership to the blockchain. In the sports cards collecting field, the authenticity could 

6 https://www.beckett.com/ 
7 https://www.psacard.com/ 
8 https://www.collectorsuniverse.com/ 
9 https://www.priceguide.cards/en 
10 http://www.collect.com/ 
11 http://www.tuffstuff.com/ 
12 http://www.sportscollectorsdigest.com/ 

27 



be traced to the card’s manufacturer creating a digital imprint of each card issued. 
Therefore, when a buyer or collector finds a special insert in the set, they could trace its 
origin back to the issuer and verify it using the smart contract, without having to rely 
on third party authentication institution. 
 
When interested in such an asset, collectors could check and verify every single 
transaction recorded in its data imprint, making it easier for them to evaluate the card 
before purchase. After acquiring it, they would be able to tokenize it on the blockchain 
and/or store it in their digital wallet, with ownership and management decisions solely 
in their hands, giving them the freedom to sell, transfer, burn, or just store it until a 
good opportunity for trading arises.  13
 
 
 
 
 

   

13 https://medium.com/0xcert/erc-721-hitting-a-home-run-77d6b4fca33d 

28 



6. Ecosystem 
 
The 0xcert team is determined to continuously bring value to the open-source 
community. Our mission is to empower developers with powerful tools and useful 
applications of non-fungible tokens. 
 
In addition to the 0xcert protocol development, the purpose of the 0xcert team, as the 
core team behind the 0xcert protocol, is to provide a foundation for trustless, certified, 
non-fungible tokens on the blockchain and to manage and unify the community by 
connecting individuals and groups working in the area of non-fungibility and to provide 
resources and support for the related community driven incentives. 
 
The 0xcert ecosystem is made up of various stakeholders, who all have different roles. 
Due to the nature of the project, a wide spectre of groups will be involved, ranging from 
research and development, all the way to for-profit companies. In a generalized sense, 
the 0xcert ecosystem is made up of four major components: 0xcert Labs, 0xcert 
Protocol Development, 0xcert Protocol Users and the Non-Fungible Alliance. 
 

 
 
 

Figure 5: The 0xcert ecosystem 
 

 
 

29 



1. 0xcert Labs 
 
We believe that we can only understand developers, the blockchain and 
decentralization, if the community uses the protocol and builds on top of it. We formed 
0xcert Labs as the 0xcert discovery group, which will work on the latest innovations in 
the space of non-fungibility, decentralization and blockchain technology. Research and 
development are core pillars that will advance the frontiers of blockchain usability and 
ultimately drive adoption.  
 

2. 0xcert Protocol Development 
 
Since the 0xcert protocol is an open-source project, we strongly believe that its future 
development should be community-driven. Down the line, we might implement a full 
DAO for protocol governance, which would completely empower the developer 
community. 
 

3. 0xcert Protocol Users 
 
Adoption is key. A great amount of our time, energy and resources will be directed 
toward ensuring adoption of 0xcert technology. This idea is also completely in line with 
why we are not just developing a protocol, but rather a full framework with extended 
tools for fast adoption. The blockchain space in general has to be driven by wider 
adoption, which cannot happen if each new project has to develop all their smart 
contracts from scratch. New blockchain projects, as well as, traditional non-blockchain 
companies will be a key driving force in the future years.  
 

4. Non-Fungible Alliance 
 
As the space of unique digital assets begins to grow, it makes sense to have a 
collaboration space where all participants can come together. The NFT Alliance is a 
collaborative hub for building real-life applications with non-fungible tokens 
technology. It is an association of corporations, services providers and developers that 
closely collaborate on the implementations of the unique assets on the blockchain.  
 

   

30 



6.1 Participants 
 
The 0xcert ecosystem consists of a large set of different parties that have come 
together in order to create and shape the non-fungible space. 
 
 
 
 

0xcert Ecosystem 
components  0xcert Labs 

0xcert Protocol 
Development 

0xcert Protocol 
Users 

Non-Fungible 
Alliance 

0xcert Ecosystem 
participants 

 

Developer 
community 
 
Researchers 
 
Partnerships 

Developer 
community 
 
Partnerships 

Partnerships 
 
Developers 
 
Projects 
 
ICOs 
 
Companies  

Existing NFT 
projects and 
companies 

 
 

6.2 Promotion & Growth 
 
Each of the four segments described above may have accompanying promotional and 
growth activities. These range from events and meetups to more comprehensive 
hackathons and implementation seminars. The 0xcert project is built with large scale 
adoption in mind, hence growth strategies are also planned.  
 

6.3 Partnerships 
 
The 0xcert protocol is a concept that brings together various actors from different 
segments and organizations. Establishing mutually beneficial partnerships will be one 
of the key progress drivers for the organization. Building strategic alliances with 
complementary organizations, companies and individuals can increase the value of the 
0xcert protocol and widen its integrational scope even further.  
 

31 



0xcert is building partnerships with stakeholders, which are relevant for its success 
both in the short-run as as well as in the long-run. Some of the entities we have already 
established partnerships with are world leading advisory firms to enable us compliant 
operations as well as leading institutions promoting certification and the benefits it 
enables. 
 
Currently we are cooperating with various blockchain organizations and startups, as 
well as currently in talks to make this cooperation public. Future partnerships will be 
announced on a rolling basis. We will strive to create meaningful and impactful 
relations with key players that can further improve the protocol or can assist in various 
verticals where key players specialize.  
 
 
 
PARTNERS 

 

 

 
 
PROJECTS BUILDING ON 0xcert 

 

  

32 



6.4 Ecosystem Growth Pool 
 
As pointed out, the 0xcert ecosystem is a large structure of various parties and 
activities. We have dedicated a large amount of the token pool, as well as, funds raised 
to the growth and promotion of the whole ecosystem. In total, 12% of the entire token 
supply (Community pool) and 10% of funds raised (Ecosystem) will go towards growth 
of the 0xcert ecosystem.  
 

   

33 



7. Token economy 
According to William Mougayar, author of "The business blockchain", a token is "a unit 
of value that an organization creates to self-govern its business model and empower its 
users to interact with its products while facilitating the distribution and sharing of 
rewards and benefits to all of its stakeholders." In this section, we present the 0xcert 
token purpose and characterization, token use cases and their implementation.  

7.1 Token purpose and Use cases 
The ZXC token is a protocol token and is introduced to align issuing parties with dapps 
and the community. With the infrastructure built around a system of smart contracts, 
its primary role is to provide the incentive mechanisms and to support the ecosystem 
with minimum possible fees.  
 

 
Figure 7: ZXC token is a native utility token of the 0xcert protocol. 

 
The ZXC token is also a part of the extended 0xcert ecosystem that spans beyond the 
protocol itself. We envision its usage on a few layers, which further decentralize 
important elements of the corresponding ecosystem.  

7.1.1 ZXC within dapps 
Dapps developed by 0xcert (e.g. KYC and Academia pilot projects), may use the ZXC 
token as the basic liquid asset for these dapps to operate on the protocol. Similar to 
gas on the Ethereum blockchain, the protocol token may play a role in all sorts of 
protocol and dapp activities. The following use cases are foreseen, but not limited to, 
within a wide variety of dapps: 

- Medium of exchange (payment utility for fees and other costs within dapp 
ecosystems) 

34 



- Staking ZXC tokens within dapps that would require it 
- Bidding ZXC tokens for accessing services and/or verification  
- Granting access to certain features of the dapp 
- Reward and loyalty mechanisms  

7.1.2 Decentralized governance 
Over time, a decentralized governance may be introduced to further strengthen the 
0xcert community. As stated above, 0xcert aims to be a community driven project. 
Various stakeholders come together to co-create an ecosystem around the protocol 
itself in an effort to cast an even wider net. In this light, the decentralized governance 
model may be introduced in the future to drive protocol-level development updates, 
conventions and update integration.  
 
Token purpose  
The protocol token may play a key role when creating a decentralized autonomous 
organization. The protocol token may not only be used as a rewarding mechanism, but 
also as a distributed voting mechanism.  
 

7.1.3 Issuer Verification Registry (IVR) 
It is becoming apparent that one of the major problems in the future may not be the 
technological barrier to issuing ownership rights of different unique assets on the 
blockchain, but rather the authenticity of issuing entities. The underlying objective is to 
create a self-sustaining curation ecosystem, which could exist without a centralized 
authority or even the creators themselves.  
 
Currently, the authenticity of issuers is ensured through centralized authorities. For 
example, higher education institutions have to go through a quality assurance process, 
which is carried out by an external body to verify if certain standards are met. This is 
called higher education accreditation that can also be viewed as a curated list or 
registry of quality educational institutions.  
 
The 0xcert ecosystem may introduce an Issuer Verification Registry (IVR), which would 
be a form of a token curated registry as proposed by Mike Goldin. This would represent 
a step toward further decentralization of the whole non-fungible assets space on the 
blockchain.  
 

35 



As pointed out above, one of the fundamental future problems in the blockchain space 
may become the authenticity of issuers. This is an issue that touches upon everyone 
involved in the ecosystem. End-users aspire to have only legitimate issuers and issuers 
want to be recognized as legitimate entities.  
 
Due to the fact that the 0xcert protocol with its corresponding libraries is completely 
open source, there is a chance that these tools may be used by entities with ill intent. 
For example, if a well recognized education provider (e.g. Stanford) wants to issue 
academic credentials on the blockchain, they can do so using free available tools. Since 
this education provider maybe a well known and respected institution, there is no 
objection to them issuing tokenized academic credentials. An issue may arise if a 
diploma mill poses itself as the same well recognized education provider (e.g. 
Stanford). It could go ahead and start issuing tokenized academic credentials that may 
look the same as the originals. This is in fact a scenario that happens in real life and can 
be detrimental to the educational institution, it can cause a substantial and 
unnecessary economic cost. End-users and issuers are both affected by this matter. In 
order to prevent this from happening, a decentralized issuer verification registry 
maybe introduced. 
 
 
Token purpose 
At the moment, there is no strong incentive that would award fairness and honesty in 
the blockchain space. A self-sustaining verification registry, which would use staking 
and rewarding mechanisms based on the 0xcert protocol token may answer many open 
questions in this relation. The Issuer Verification Registry (IVR) may use the ZXC token 
to give curation rights that correspond to the relative token weight of token holders. 
This is a floating ecosystem which has to be decoupled from price fluctuations of other 
cryptographic currencies or tokens. Only independent supply and demand of ZXC will 
create a feedback mechanism that ultimately encourages token holders to maintain 
and curate a list of authentic NFT issuers.  
 

7.2 Implementation 
 
The ZXC tokens are the native utility tokens of the 0xcert protocol. These are fungible 
tokens and are compliant with the Ethereum's ERC-20 standard. 
 
 

36 



8. Structure 
0xcert project is and will be structuring its operations and delivery on its goals and 
roadmap via different elements, which include: corporation structure, governance, 
token rules, exchanges and voting rules.  
 

8.1 Corporation Structure 
 
0xcert is currently and at the time of the token sale organized as a company, registered 
in Slovenia (European Union), the token generated and the funds collected will belong 
to this company. The Company is set up according to EU laws and regulations.  
 
For the future development and roadmap, the following legal entities will enable the 
project to deliver on the planned roadmap: 

a) The 0xcert Protocol Foundation: ​ - will manage the 0xcert as a protocol and will 
use a proportion of tokens for supporting the development of the protocol 
developers’ and projects’ community. Expected time to set up the foundation is 
in late Q3 2018 or Q4 2018.  

b) The 0xcert-for-profit (existing Company):​ will function as a service provider to 
the 0xcert foundation (initial development and handover of code) and will be 
funded by the funds generated by the token sale to develop the 0xcert protocol 
and initial two pilot cases (Academia and KYC). More information in the 
roadmap. 

c) For the purpose of better organisation and legal purposes, both entities (a) and 
(b) can set up additional entities within planned or new jurisdictions.  

 

8.2 Governance 
 
Both 0xcert Protocol Foundation and 0xcert-for-profit will be governed 
organizationally at three levels: 

a) Board of Directors: ​ The purpose is the overall supervision of the project 
progress. Consisting of some of the current 0xcert advisors and Management 
team members, as well as potentially some new members. The number of 
members is limited to five (5). The Board of Directors will be set up within three 

37 



(3) months after the token sale or, in the case of foundation, at the time of 
setting up the foundation. Meetings will be scheduled on a quarterly basis. 

b) Advisory Board:​ Advisory for strategic related decision making. It will consist of 
some of current 0xcert advisors as well potentially some new members. The 
number of members is not limited per se. The advisory boards will be set up 
within three (3) months after the token sale or, in the case of foundation, at the 
time of setting up the foundation. Meetings will be scheduled on a quarterly 
basis. 

c) Management Board:​ Daily operations and, operational decisions and execution. 
Consisting of some of current management as well as potentially new members. 
The number of members is limited to five (5). The management board will be set 
up within 1 month after token sale. For the foundation, it will be set up at the 
time of setting up the foundation. 

 
In addition, 0xcert will produce ​quarterly reports​. Quarterly reports will be produced 
for each of the entities by the Management Board and confirmed by the Board of 
Directors. It will be publicly available on communications channels and webpage(s). The 
first report will be published in the first full quarter after the setting up the foundation 
or after the crowdsale. 
 
We will actively invite interested ​stakeholders to contribute​ with their ​suggestions ​and 
comments on our progress and thus engage developers, users, as well as business 
partners. The suggestions are not going to be binding, however, they will be taken into 
consideration as valuable input from a wider ecosystem. The team will utilize existing 
and future communications channels (e.g. Telegram) to interact with the stakeholders 
as well as hold regular ask me anything (AMA) sessions, if needed, in addition to other 
interaction opportunities when deemed appropriate. The team is already and will also in 
the future be actively engaging in conferences and meetups with various stakeholders 
to exchange opinions and obtain feedback on work and progress.  
 

8.3 Token 
The 0xcert token ZXC and the protocol will be managed by the 0xcert Foundation. The 
number of tokens will be fixed and cannot be additionally minted. Any changes to the 
token design will be governed by the 0xcert Foundation and its Board of Directors. The 
token holders will not have voting rights, but the Management Board and Board of 
Directors can consult with a wider stakeholder ecosystem: developers, partners, token 
holders as well as other existing and future stakeholders.  

38 



 

8.4 Exchanges 
0xcert will strive to provide as many diverse opportunities for users to purchase or sell 
tokens. We will actively engage in partnerships with both centralized and decentralized 
exchanges. When looking for partner exchanges, we will apply the criteria of legal fit as 
well as acceptable commercial conditions.  
 
The reach out to exchanges will be done prior to the token sale event, however, due to 
the nature of business practices of exchanges, any announcements can only be made 
after the token sale has finished. The 0xcert team can announce and talk about the 
exchanges only after the official confirmation of both sides (this is suggested by legal 
partners and exchanges).  
 
We must understand the role exchanges play in the project and how the team views 
exchange partnerships. Exchanges are partners of the project in terms of that they 
enable users of the protocol to exchange the tokens in order to use and interact with 
the protocol. 
 

8.5 Voting 
Initially, token holders will not have any voting rights. The governance of both entities 
is in the hands of the Board of Directors and the Management Board for both 0xcert 
Foundation and 0xcert-for-profit. 
 
In the future, the 0xcert Foundation can introduce voting rights for token holders in a 
sense of DAO. This decision and the rules are solely in the hands of the Board of 
Directors of the 0xcert Foundation.   
 
 

   

39 



9. The business side of things 
 
0xcert company is raising funds through token sales to fund the development of the 
0xcert protocol and the establishment of the 0xcert Foundation, which will manage the 
ZXC token and the protocol. However, the 0xcert for profit company also needs a 
stable business model and a go-to-market strategy for long-term growth and 
development.  
 

9.1 Business model 
 
As 0xcert-for-profit will have an in-depth knowledge of 0xcert as a protocol, we will 
arrange our future revenue streams as follows: 

- Advisory to startups and corporations: in implementing NFT in their business 
models and applying 0xcert protocol. Advisory may include, among other 
services: development, operational processes and legal support. In the event the 
knowledge or experience is not available in-house, then we will partner with 
others to provide it. Both advisory fees or equity are options as remuneration. 

- Educational programs (training) and professional conferences: for both startups 
as well as corporations. 

- Development of our own dapps: on top of 0xcert protocol and running these as 
separate business units under the (partial) ownership of 0xcert-for-profit. 

 
 

9.2 Go-to-market strategy 
 
For-profit advisory and educational programs will be based on acquiring and 
maintaining relationships with startups and corporates. We will have a dedicated sales 
unit, which will reach out to new and existing startup and corporate clients and help 
them address their challenges related to NFT implementations and solutions. Being the 
creators of 0xcert protocol, we will leverage our brand and our contacts to enable a 
steady sales funnel flow. 
 
Based on our overall understanding of market opportunities and challenges, we may 
decide to enter a specific vertical in order to apply NFTs. We will make sure that we do 

40 



not enter into conflict of interest situations with our advisory and educational revenue 
streams. For each of the identified verticals, the for-profit can fund the initial set-up 
and solution development, however, the vertical dapp will be carved out as a separate 
business unit with its management, operations and development team. 
 
 

9.3 Competitive landscape 
The non-fungible token space is just beginning. ERC-721 has shown us that the 
immense capabilities of blockchain lie in front of us and have not really even been 
tapped into. Placing unique assets on the blockchain will spur a whole new plethora of 
ideas, projects and companies -- things previously impossible and unimaginable.  
 
0xcert is dealing primarily with the application layer of things: giving developers tools 
to more effectively build applications on top of this new standard. Developers can build 
dapps on top of it, while end users can use their solutions to prove authenticity, 
authorship or ownership of their assets (such as collectibles, university degrees, 
identity/KYC, in-game items or a house), making them secure and available while they 
are certified on the blockchain. 
 
At the moment of writing this white paper, we were unable to identify a competitor that 
would be focusing on developing a unifying developer framework with conventions on 
top of ERC-721. However, there are competitors in various niches where the 0xcert 
protocol and higher-level dapps built with the 0xcert protocol can be used. These span 
from art, collectibles, education credentials, identity and more, all the way to real 
estate and car ownership.  
 
0xcert protocol is a building block for everyone to use. In that light, we see most of the 
companies that on first glance may appear as competitors, rather as potential partners 
and protocol adopters. Using unique digital assets is in many cases a superior solution, 
hence we will see a wider adoption in the future. 0xcert is merely going to provide the 
underlying infrastructure for all these projects to use. 
 
The purpose of the 0xcert organization, as the core team behind the 0xcert protocol, is 
to provide a foundation for trustless, certified, non-fungible tokens on the blockchain 
and unify the community to the fullest. We intend to bring value to the open-source 
community engaged with the 0xcert protocol, to connect individuals and groups 

41 



working in the area of non-fungibility or certification and to provide resources and 
support for the related community-driven incentives.    

42 



10. Timeline 
The inception of 0xcert was in 2017. After the first MVPs were created and tested, a 
more rigorous and detailed development roadmap was laid out. Although we are on 
track, there is still a long way to go. Below is a detailed roadmap, which is followed by 
milestones .  14
 

10.1 Development roadmap 
 

Q3 2017 ✅  - First proposal of the blockchain certification technology 
- First MVP for deployment and verification of certificates 

Q4 2017 ✅  - Shift towards open-source 
- Explore wider adoption and a protocol approach 
- Xcert smart contract draft 
- Technical paper draft 

Q1 2018 ✅  - Pivot towards ERC-721 for assets on the blockchain 
- Proof of protocol concept 
- DEX draft implementation 

Q2 2018 ✅  - Joining forces with ERC-721 standard lead author, William Entriken 
- ERC-721 complete implementation with bounty 
- Xcert complete implementation with bounty 
- DEX alpha implementation 
- Xcert minter alpha implementation 
- 0xcert scanner alpha dapp 
- Technical paper 1.0 

Q3 2018  - Whitelist/KYC certificate dapp (another PoC for crowdsale) 
- Crowdsale PoC certificates used 
- Protocol draft on Ethereum mainnet (limited) 
- DEX alpha dapp 

Q4 2018  - Protocol 1.0 (Ethereum) - Odin 
- Framework 1.0 (protocol features, application layer) 
- DEX 1.0 dapp 
- Minter 1.0 dapp 

2019 
Q1+Q2 

- Protocol 2.0 (Ethereum, second chain) - Aragorn 
- Framework 2.0 (notification system, community requested features) 
 

2019 
Q3+Q4 

- Pilot dapp for selected vertical 1 
- Pilot dapp for selected vertical 2 
- Curated registry 

14 ​The timeline and milestones may be susceptible to change due to unforeseen events, complications and interruptions. 

43 



10.2 Milestones 
 
 

   
MVP 

 
Alpha 

 
Beta 

Odin 
(protocol v1) 

Aragorn 
(protocol v2) 

Protocol 

Xcert   X (proof of 
protocol 
concept) 

x  x  x   

Conventions    x  x  x  x 

Framework 

Devkit (SDK)    x  x  x  x 

DEX 
implementation    x    x  x 

DXM 
implementation  x  x    x   

0xcert Labs 

ERC-721 
implementation  x  x       

Scanner dapp  x  x  x     

Identity dapp      x     

DEX dapp        x  x 

DXM dapp        x  x 

IVR        x  x 

 

   

44 



11. Token distribution event 
 
The 0xcert Token Distribution Event will take place during the months of June and July 
in 2018. In this section, we present the information about the 0xcert token, crowdsale, 
token distribution and funds allocation.  

11.1 Token and crowdsale info 
 

Token name: ​ZXC (ERC-20) 

Price of token: ​0.0001 ETH, 1 ETH = 10,000 ZXC 

Max presale bonus:​ 20% 

Hardcap: ~ ​20,000 ETH (estimated based on bonus distribution) 

Softcap:​ 5,000 ETH 

Token Supply:​ 500,000,000 (fixed, no future minting) 

Circulating supply:​ 250,000,000 

Percentage of tokens going to contributors in all token sale stages: ​50%,  250 
mio ZXC tokens.  

 

 
0xcert token sale consists of four stages: Pre-ICO (early buyers), Private Presale 
(larger buyers), Public Presale (10% discount) and a Public Crowdsale. Details about 
each stage can be found in the table below. In case the allocated number of tokens for 
each stage is not sold in the allocated stage, it is rolled to the next stage. If there are 
tokens planned for sale left after the final stage, they will be burnt. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

45 



 

Stage  Date  Tokens Allocation  Max bonus  % Total tokens 

Pre-ICO  Closed  15,000,000  40%  3% 

Private Presale 
Min. participation 200 ETH  Until  June 20th 2018  120,000,000  15-20%  24% 

Public Presale 
Min. participation 1 ETH  July  2 - July 4, 2018  71,157,402  10%  14% 

Crowdsale  July 4 - July 18, 2018  43,842,597  5% (first 24 hrs)   9% 

 

11.2 Token distribution 
 
The 0xcert token distribution is found in the table below. 50% of all tokens are 
reserved to be sold in different stages of the crowdsale. The remaining is reserved for 
team, current and future stakeholders and future reserves.  
 

Token distribution  % total tokens  Purpose  

Pre-ICO  3.00%  Token sale 

Token sale (crowdsale)  47.00%  Token sale 

Founders and team  15.00%  Incentives alignment 

Advisors (& legal)  6.00%  Incentives alignment 

Liquidity pool  5.00%  Supporting token liquidity 

Community pool  12.00%  Supporting development of protocol community, allocated to Foundation 

Bounties  2.00%  Bug bounties, allocated to Foundation 

Reserves  10.00%  Future development fund 

 

46 



 
Distributed tokens differ in their lock-up period. The Founders, Team and Advisors have 
tokens locked-up in different periods. The buyers do not have tokens locked-up.  

Lock-Up for Buyers: None 

Lock-up for Founders: Locked for 6 months then 12.5% and 12.5% every three months. 

Lock-up for Team: 20% released at ICO and 15% every three months after ICO. 

Lock-up for Advisors: 20% at ICO, 40% in three months, 40% in six months 

Lock-up for Reserves: 2 years 

 

 

11.3 Distribution schedule 
 
The distribution of the tokens will be done via the the crowdsale smart contract, with 
the following design: 

a) The Pre-ICO and Private Presale buyers will receive their purchased ZXC tokens 
to the ETH wallet address they have provided to 0xcert. 

47 



b) The Public Presale and the Crowdsale buyers will receive their purchased ZXC 
tokens to the originating ETH wallet address from where the ETH funds to 
purchase ZXC token have been sent.   

c) All token buyers will receive their ZXC token the latest 7 days after the final date 
of the public crowdsale.  

d) The unsold tokens allocated to the token sale will be burnt within 7 days after 
the final end date of the public crowdsale.  

e) The remaining 50% of tokens (not allocated to token sale) will be distributed to 
their respective ETH wallet addresses within 7 days after the final end date of 
the public crowdsale.   

 
All the distributed tokens will be locked up until 7 days after the final end date of the 
public crowdsale. Once the tokens are unlocked, the buyers can move them. This 
timeline is based on Ethereum network functioning normally and provided there are no 
lags.  
 

11.4 Participation in the token sale 
 
The participation in the token sale event will require buyers to: 

a) Have ETH (Ethereum) cryptocurrency 
b) Have an ETH wallet address 
c) Do a KYC required for the purchasing of the token 
d) Be a citizen of countries that are eligible for their citizens to participate in the 

token sale (more details in the Token Sale Terms and Conditions). 
 
In addition to conditions above: 

e) In order to participate in the private presale there is a minimum of 200 ETH of 
purchase amount  

f) Only public presale whitelisted buyers can participate in the Public Presale. The 
public presale whitelist will be closed before the beginning of the public presale. 
The information when the whitelisting for public presale will be closed will be 
published on the 0xcert website. In the public presale 1 ETH is the minimum 
purchase amount 

g) During the public crowdsale the token sale will be open to all (respecting 
condition a) to d)). There will be no minimum purchase amount in the public 
crowdsale  

48 



11.5 Funds allocation 
 
The funds collected in the token sale will be used with the following allocation: 
 
 

Funds allocation  % of all funds  

Development  50.00% 

Marketing  15.00% 

Legal  10.00% 

Operations  10.00% 

Setting up the Foundation  5.00% 

Foundation funds  10.00%  

 

 
 

49 



The last two allocation areas are aimed at setting up the 0xcert foundation as a 
separate legal entity as well as transfering a part of funds to the Foundation to enable 
immediate foundation operations.  
 
 
 

   

50 



12. Team 
The 0xcert team is a fully dedicated group of highly skilled individuals. At the moment, 
the team consists of 18 members that operate in all crucial areas to support both the 
long-term strategy as well as the short-term execution. In contrast to many other 
projects and companies, the vast majority of resources are in-house.  

12.1 Team 
 
Operations  
Jure Zih, CEO 
Mitja Pirc, COO 
Anja Pukl, CFO 
 
Development team 
Kristijan Sedlak, CTO 
Tadej Vengust, Solidity developer 
David Ličen, Lead front-end developer 
Luka Kacil, Senior blockchain developer 
Leon Panjtar, Full-stack developer 
Gregor Ažbe, Junior front-end developer 
 
Growth team 
Jure Jakomin, Growth hacker 
Matic Užmah, Customer success  
Petra Kosi, Social media 
Petra Mišič, Public Relations  
 
Content and design team 
Nick Stein, Head of content 
Lenka Tušar, Content creation 
Romina Kavčič, Design Strategy 
 
Community management team 
Urban Osvald, Head of community 
Tomaž Železnikar, Community manager 
Kim Fairley, Community & Partnership manager 

51 



 

11.2 Advisors 
William Entriken, ERC-721 main author  
www.linkedin.com/in/fulldecent/​, ​https://github.com/fulldecent​, ​https://phor.net/ 
 
William Entriken is the lead author of ERC-721. He is an active computer science 
researcher who has contributed tremendous amounts of open source projects to the 
community. In his non-blockchain life, Will is the General manager of Pacific Medical 
Training, a company that creates interactive medical training courses.  
 
 
Moe Levin, Blockchain pioneer  
www.linkedin.com/in/moelevin/  
 
Moe Levin is a blockchain evangelist and pioneer. He is the CEO of Keynote, a company 
focusing on creating blockchain events all over the world. Moe is also an Executive 
committee member of the Global Blockchain Council and the founder of the North 
American Bitcoin Conference. 
 
Mark Pui, MW Partners advisor 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-pui-b9ab3046/  
 
Mark Pui has up to recently been the Executive Director at PwC in Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia. He draws his skills and experience from a long and successful career in 
management consulting, corporate finance, consulting and advising. Mark is also a seed 
investor in early stage companies like 0x, Bancor, EOS, QTUM, Tezos and many others. 
Within the blockchain space, his focus lies in​ blockchain interoperability, tokenization of 
financial and non-financial assets, privacy protocols, stablecoins and 
Enterprise-oriented use cases.  
 
 
Dr. Draško Veselinović, multi CEO experience 
www.linkedin.com/in/draskoveselinovic/ 
 
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Draško Veselinović is the President and CEO of SEBRA - Slovenian 
Business and Research Association. In his career, he held many top executive positions 
and has more notably co-founded the Yugoslavian Stock Exchange as well as the 

52 

https://www.linkedin.com/in/fulldecent/
https://github.com/fulldecent
https://phor.net/
https://www.linkedin.com/in/moelevin/
https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-pui-b9ab3046/
http://www.linkedin.com/in/draskoveselinovic/


Slovenian Stock Exchange. To this day, he remains a well respected authority in the 
field of business, finance and education. 
 
 
Dušica Lukač: Fintech expert, C-level  
www.linkedin.com/in/dusicalukac/ 
 
Dušica is a seasoned financial expert and Founder of Stizzbuzz, a boutique investment 
and consultancy company with focus on Startups and Tech companies. She has also 
held numerous top level executive positions in and co-founded many successful 
business. 
 
Simon Belak, tech entrepreneur  
www.linkedin.com/in/simonbelak/ 
 
Simon is a tech entrepreneur, highly proficient in data analytics and currently working 
as a Mad scientist with Metabase. He is able to juxtapoz philosophical views and 
concepts with advanced science and technology - a unique perspective rarely found.  
 
Dr. Daithí Ó Murchú, President RCEEDAO Ireland  
https://www.linkedin.com/in/dr-daith%C3%AD-%C3%B3-murch%C3%BA-5722862
4/  
 
Dr. Daithí Ó Murchú is the President of RCEEDAO Ireland and is under EU parliament 
and Commission Appointment. He is also the founding member at the International 
Fellow Academy of Ubiquitous Communication Educators International. He has vast 
experience from the education segment as well as in technology, innovation, business 
and management.  
 
 
 

   

53 

https://www.linkedin.com/in/dusicalukac/
http://www.linkedin.com/in/simonbelak/
https://www.linkedin.com/in/dr-daith%C3%AD-%C3%B3-murch%C3%BA-57228624/
https://www.linkedin.com/in/dr-daith%C3%AD-%C3%B3-murch%C3%BA-57228624/


Disclaimer 
 
“This paper is for information purposes only and no part of it is intended to create legal 
relations between a recipient of this paper or to be legally binding or enforceable by 
such recipient against the company that owns the project. An updated version of this 
paper may be published on a date to be determined and announced by the company 
that owns the project in course. Company that owns the project makes no warranties or 
representations as to the successful development or implementation of such 
technologies and innovations, or achievement of any other activities noted in the 
paper, and disclaims any warranties implied by law or otherwise, to the extent 
permitted by law.” 
 

RISK FACTORS 
 
THIS SECTION ON RISK FACTORS IS NOT AND DOES NOT PURPORT TO BE A COMPLETE                             
ENUMERATION OR EXPLANATION OF THE RISKS INVOLVED WITH THE PURCHASE OF ZXC Token.                         
THERE MAY BE ADDITIONAL MATERIAL RISKS THAT THE DIRECTORS DO NOT CURRENTLY                       
CONSIDER TO BE MATERIAL OR OF WHICH THE DIRECTORS ARE NOT AWARE. THE FOLLOWING                           
THEREFORE HIGHLIGHTS CERTAIN RISKS TO WHICH THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO AND WHICH THE                           
COMPANY WISHES TO ENCOURAGE PURCHASER TO DISCUSS WITH THEIR OWN PROFESSIONAL                     
ADVISORS. 
 
Prospective ZXC Token purchasers should conduct such independent investigation and analysis                     
regarding this Company, the ZXC Token and all other relevant market and economic factors as they                               
deem appropriate to fully evaluate the merits and risk of their purchase. 
 
The Company and its Directors disclaim any responsibility to advise purchasers of ZXC Token of the risk                                 
and considerations associated with the purchase of ZXC Token as they exist at the date hereof or from                                   
time to time hereinafter. 
 
Each prospective purchaser of any ZXC Token must determine, based on his/her own independent                           
review and such professional advice (including, without limitation, tax, accounting, credit, legal and                         
regulatory advice) as it deems appropriate, that the purchase of ZXC Token is appropriate and suitable                               
for it, notwithstanding the clear and substantial risks inherent with the purchase of ZXC Token. 
 
You should consult with your own legal, regulatory, tax, business, investment, financial and accounting                           
professional advisors to the extent that you deem it necessary, and make your own decisions including                               
decisions regarding the suitability of this purchase based upon your own judgement and upon advice                             
from such professional advisors as you deem necessary and not upon any view expressed by any party                                 
mentioned in this Whitepaper. 
 
The purchaser of a ZXC Token should be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of such a purchase                                     
and should have sufficient resources to be able to bear any losses (which may be equal to the whole                                     

54 



purchased amount) that may result from such a purchase. Prospective purchasers of ZXC Token should                             
be aware that the value of ZXC Token may go down as well as up and that they may not be able realise                                             
their purchase amount on the secondary market (if there is any). 
 
Forward looking statements 
 
Certain statements in this Whitepaper constitute “forward looking statements” that are used on the                           
beliefs of the Directors and reflect their current expectations. When used in this Whitepaper or in any of                                   
the Company’s material, the words “estimate”, “project”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “expect”,                     
“plan”, “predict”, “may”, “might”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “will”, the negative of these words or such                             
other variations thereon or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements.                       
Such statements reflect the views of the Directors at the time the statements are made with respect to                                   
future events based on information available at that time, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that                                 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in those forward-looking                         
statements. The Directors assume no obligation to update or revise these statements to reflect current                             
information, events, or circumstances, including changes in any risks or uncertainties that may impact                           
them. 
 
Management Risk 
 
If any of the directors or officers of the Company cease to participate in the operation of the Company,                                     
the operations, objectives, and activities of the Company may be adversely affected. 
 
Liquidity of ZXC Token 
 
As of the date of this Whitepaper, there is no active secondary market for the ZXC Token. Whilst the                                     
Directors hope that the success of the Company will lead to a secondary market developing, there is no                                   
guarantee or assurance that a public market will ever develop. There is often no assurance that a                                 
purchaser of the ZXC Token will be able to sell or dispose of the ZXC Token. 
 
Changes in Applicable Law and Regulation 
 
The Directors believe that it is possible that emergency intervention by certain Governments may take                             
place in the future in respect of ICOs. Such intervention may be implemented on an “emergency” basis,                                 
subjecting market participants without notice to a set of regulations which in some cases may be unclear                                 
in scope and in application. 
 
Should any relevant laws or regulations change, the legal requirements to which the Company and the                               
ZXC Token may be subject could differ materially from current requirements. No assurance can be given                               
that future legislation, administrative rulings or court decisions will not adversely affect the Company                           
and the ZXC Token. 
 
The Company may be subject to a number of unusual risks, including contradictory legislation,                           
incomplete, unclear and changing laws, ignorance or breaches of regulations on the part of other market                               
participants, lack of established or effective avenues for legal redress, lack of standard practices and                             
confidentiality customs characteristic of developed markets and lack of enforcement of existing                       
regulations. 
 

55 



 
Early Stage Companies 
 
The Company is a start-up and has no operating history against which purchasers of the ZXC Token may                                   
consider the appropriateness of purchasing the ZXC Token. 
 
Many risks and uncertainties affect start-up and early stage companies, which often have very limited                             
operating history, profits or cash flow. There can be no assurance of the success of such enterprises.                                 
Their potential must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and                           
delays frequently encountered in connection with new or developing businesses, including technology                       
risks, unproven business models, untested plans, uncertain market acceptance, competition and lack of                         
revenues and financing. 
 
The technological fields and markets that many start-up and early stage companies address have                           
undergone and are expected to continue to undergo rapid and significant change. Rapid technological                           
developments may result in the technology of companies becoming obsolete, uneconomical or                       
uncompetitive before any commercial success or financial return can be achieved. Numerous other risks                           
may affect developing companies and ventures, including risks that products or services will be found to                               
be ineffective, unreliable, unsafe or uncompetitive and risks that such companies' technologies, products                         
or service will not achieve market acceptance or penetration. Market acceptance of new products,                           
services or technologies depends on many factors and uncertainties and cannot be assured. 
 
Start-up and early stage companies may compete with entities that have established businesses,                         
relationships and positions in the market and that have much more substantial financial, business,                           
technological, marketing and distribution assets, operations and resources. There can be no assurance                         
that any developing company will be able to compete successfully with more established companies. 
 
These companies may be overly dependent on the vision, skill and leadership of a single or limited                                 
number of executives. In a start-up business, the loss or disability of a key person(s) can result in                                   
significant financial hardship, in some cases the failure of the company. 
 
Any projections, forecasts, plans or other forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks,                         
uncertainties, changing circumstances and other factors that could cause actual results, performance,                       
plans, prospects, operations and opportunities to differ materially from any forward-looking statements,                       
including competition, inability to identify and do business with appropriate customers, existing and                         
future law and regulations, liabilities under the securities laws, inability to hire, retain or qualify sufficient                               
management and staff, general economic conditions, rapid technological change, cost overruns, delays in                         
bringing products or services to market, marketing failures, difficulty in penetrating markets, delays or                           
failures in developing anticipated capabilities, products or services, failure to obtain necessary                       
regulatory approvals, insufficient funding, lack of availability of capital, rates of economic growth, levels                           
of consumer and business spending, conditions in the technology and financial industries, dependence                         
on strategic partners and business relationships, unproven business models, adverse developments                     
affecting customers and end-users, fluctuations in securities markets and valuations, limited marketing,                       
expansion risks, losses and costs, uncertain revenues and profitability, conditions in particular industries,                         
accounting problems, costs, delays and liabilities arising from legal proceedings, failure to obtain and                           
maintain intellectual property or proprietary rights and management failures. 
 
 

56 



Banking and custody arrangements 
 
The Company’s cash will be held by a bank. The Company acknowledges that any such deposits are not                                   
guaranteed by the bank and are exposed to losses incurred in the event of the insolvency or failure of the                                       
bank. The Company will take credit risk against any party which is holding its cash. The Company will                                   
therefore rank as a general unsecured creditor in the event of the insolvency or failure of the bank with                                     
which deposits or instruments have been placed. 
 
Regulatory Supervision 
 
The Company and the ZXC Token are not regulated by the EU or Slovenian Financial Services                               
Commission or any other regulatory or supervisory authority. The EU or Slovenian Financial Services                           
Commission does not vouch for the financial soundness of the Company, the ZXC Token or for the                                 
correctness of any statements made, or opinions expressed with regards to it. 
 
Cybersecurity 
 
Cybersecurity threats are present within the realms of cryptocurrencies. There is a risk of loss of funds,                                 
including a total loss, should an unauthorised intrusion or theft occur. 
 
Whilst the Company has considered its cybersecurity, risks related to software weakness, human error,                           
external attacks and others, continue to exist and pose a material risk to the Company and the value of                                     
the ZXC Token. 
 
Advances in cryptography, or technical advances such as the development of quantum computers, may                           
present risks for crypto-currencies, which could result in the theft or loss of ZXC. 
 
Hackers or other malicious or criminal groups or organizations may attempt to interfere with the Token                               
Sale, the ecosystem or the availability of ZXC in several ways including, but not limited to, denial of                                   
service attacks, Sybil attacks, mystification, phishing, attacks, smurfing, malware attacks, or consensus                       
based attacks. 
 
Ethereum Network 
 
The ZXC Token is a part of the Ethereum network. If problems related to the Ethereum network normal                                   
functionality arise, this may affect the ZXC Token functionality and may adversely affect the Company                             
and the value of the ZXC Token. Therefore, any malfunction, unplanned function or unexpected                           
operation of the Ethereum protocol may cause the ZXC ecosystem or ZXC to malfunction or operate in a                                   
way that is not expected. Ether, the native Ethereum Protocol account unit may itself lose value in a                                   
similar way to ZXC, and also in other ways. For more information on the Ethereum protocol, see                                 
http://www.ethereum.org. Any error in the smart contract may lead to the lose​. 
 
As with other decentralized cryptographic tokens and crypto-currencies, the Ethereum blockchain used                       
for the ecosystem is vulnerable to mining attacks, including but not limited to, dual-expense attacks,                             
powerful mining attacks, selfish mining attacks, and critical competition attacks. Any successful attack                         
poses a risk to the software and the expected performance and sequencing of Ethereum contract                             
calculations. Despite the best efforts of the team, the risk of known or new mining attacks exists. 

57 



 
Crypto-currencies and cryptographic tokens are a cutting-edge, untested technology. In addition to the                         
risks stipulated above, there are other risks that the 0xcert team cannot predict. Risks may also occur as                                   
unanticipated combinations or as changes in the risks stipulated herein.  
 
THE FOREGOING RISK FACTORS DO NOT PURPORT TO BE A COMPLETE EXPLANATION OF THE                           
RISKS INVOLVED WITH THE COMPANY AND THE ZXC Token. 
 

58 


