




































 

Giant White Paper 

Giant White Paper 2 

Giant Design Goals: Smart Bets 3 
Digital Assets 3 
Giant Coin Specification 3 
Application and Ecosystem 3 

Giant Management Model 5 
Economic Model 5 

Masternode Rewards 6 
Premine Distribution 6 

Governance Mechanism 8 

Smart Contracts 9 
       ​GiantVM - Universal Block Chain Virtual Machine 9 
       ​Software Development Kit - Compiler and IDE plugin 9 

The Decentralized Binary Options Giant.Exchange 10 

Acknowledgments 11 

Legal 12 

Summary 13 

References 14 

 

  

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

2 



 

Giant Design Goals: Smart Bets 

Giant is the use of blockchain technology and smart contracts for digital                       
assets to be self-managed, to achieve "smart bets" with a distributed network. 

Digital Assets 

Digital assets are programmable assets that exist in the form of electronic                       
data. With blockchain technology, the digitization of assets can be decentralized,                     
trustful, traceable, highly transparent, and free of intermediaries. On the Giant                     
blockchain, users are able to register, trade, and circulate single type of assets -                           
Giant Coin. 

Giant has two forms of digital assets: global assets and contract assets. Global                         
assets can be recorded in the system space and can be identified by all smart                             
contracts and clients. Contract assets are recorded in the private storage area of the                           
smart contract and require a compatible client to recognize them. Contract assets                       
can adhere to certain standards in order to achieve compatibility with most clients. 

Giant Coin Specification 

● Name: Giant 

● Ticker: GIC 

● Type: PoS + MASTERNODE 

● Premine: 200,000 GIC 

● Collateral: 1,000 GIC 

● Maturity: 200 

● Max Coin Supply: 1,323,000 PoW Phase + Infinite PoS Phase 

● Block Time: 120 seconds 

● Difficulty Retarget: DGW v3.0 Every block 

● P2P Port: 40444 

● RPC Port: 41444 

Application and Ecosystem 

Ecosystem is vital for the open source community. In order to achieve the goal                           
of an intelligent economic network, Giant will be committed to the development of                         
its ecosystem, providing mature development kits, improving the quality of project                     
documents. We plan to support the following Giant-based applications and ecology                     
and to reward improvements to the design of the experience: 

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

3 



 

● Node Program 

○ A fully functioning Full node PC program 

○ Web / Android / iOS clients that do not need to synchronize with the                           

blockchain 

● Giant Network site 

● Blockchain Explorer 

● Giant Contracts 

○ giantjs 

○ GiantConnect 

○ GiantSigner 

● Decentralized Applications 

○ Giant.Exchange 

○ Giant.Bet 

○ Giant.ColdStake 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

4 



 

Giant Management Model 

Economic Model 

Giant has a single native token, Giant Coin (abbreviated symbol GIC). 

GIC coins emission is unlimited, but the reward for a block is regulated                         
depending on the block height. At the beginning, the emission curve is designed for                           
the rapid growth of the network, while further, the number of issued coins will                           
decrease. The decrease will occur both due to the reduction of the fee for a block,                               
and due to burning of the transaction fees. Burning of the transaction fees is an                             
important element of the Giant network, since the fee is required to create a                           
transaction and to execute the smart contract. Burning of the fees in the Giant                           
network provides a long-term effect by increasing the value of GIC and by                         
eliminating the problem of transaction spam. The emission of Giant is divided into                         
two phases:  

1. the PoW phase (8 May 2018 - 20 August 2018) 
2. the PoS phase (all subsequent time) 

A key element of the Giant economy is Giant masternodes. Masternode is a                         

full node of the Giant network and it is associated with a frozen collateral of GIC on                                 

the account of the masternode owner. By helping to scale and to validate the Giant                             

network, the owner of the masternode receives the following options:  

● Payment of 80% of rewards from a block 

● Ability to create smart contracts in the Giant network 

● Opportunity to participate in Giant technology-backed projects             

revenue 

● Opportunity to participate in determining of the future of the Giant                     

network through voting, where 1 vote equals 1 masternode 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

5 



 

Masternode Rewards 

The Masternode Reward depends on the phase and number of enabled                     
Masternodes in the network. In general, payments for a standard day for running a                           
Masternode can be calculated by using the following formula: 

 

Where: 

n​ is the number of Masternodes an operator controls 

t​ is the total number of Masternodes 

r​ is the current block reward 

b​ is blocks in an average day. For the Giant network this usually is 720. 

a​ is the average Masternode payment (80% of the average block amount) 

Return on investment for running a Masternode can be calculated as                   

 ​where variables are the same as above. 

 

As you can see, the GIC supply is designed for the fast accumulation of                           
Masternodes in the Network during the first years. By that we can ensure the speed                             
of transactions once the Giant based projects start. 

Premine Distribution 

200,000 GIC Premine is reserved for the following purposes: 

● 6000 GIC - to create the first 6 masternodes that stabilize the Giant                         
network 

● 44000 GIC - to have bounty programs and airdrops 

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

6 



 

● 50000 GIC - marketing budget for the promotion of the Giant network                       
and Giant-based applications (Giant.Exchange, etc) 

● 100000 GIC - motivation of developers for the development of the                     
Giant network and its ecosystem 

Note that the pre-mined coins are excluded from the process of staking after                         
the Proof-of-Stake phase begins. 

 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

7 



 

Governance Mechanism 

The Giant decentralized and self-financing governance system empowers the                 
community to steer the direction of Giant. This system will allow someone to make a                             
management proposal using the application giantpay.network. Proposals are voted                 
on by masternodes to direct the future of the currency and projects. Initially the                           
Giant block reward allocates 0% into a community-governed Treasury Fund. In the                       
future, after the implementation of the planned for 2018, the community will decide                         
what percentage of the reward block will go to the Treasury Fund. This fund will be                               
fully open to audit by the public, providing assurance of the fund’s intended use.  

The Giant community will be able to determine if a certain course of action is                             
feasible by using the mechanism of proposals. The budget allocation will only be                         
conducted after a two-step vote. The first stage will be held on our Discord server.                             
The second stage - a masternode owners vote - will be opened if the proposal passes                               
the Discord vote. This means that all users will be able to have a say in a sensitive                                   
question of budget allocating, including the masternode dividends. The masternode                   
owners can be compared to the board of shareholders. 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

8 



 

Smart Contracts 

Blockchain technology provides us with a decentralized, tamper-resistant,               
highly reliable system in which smart contracts are very useful. Giant has an                         
independent smart contract system: GiantContract. 

The GiantContract smart contract system is the biggest feature of the                     
seamless integration of the existing developer ecosystem. Developers do not need                     
to learn a new programming language but use Javascript (Java and C # in the future)                               
in their familiar IDE environments for smart contract development, debugging and                     
compilation. Giant’s Universal Lightweight Virtual Machine, GiantVM, has the                 
advantages of high certainty, high concurrency, and high scalability. The                   
GiantContract smart contract system will allow millions of developers around the                     
world to quickly carry out the development of smart contracts. GiantContract will                       
have a separate white paper describing the implementation details. 

Giant smart contract system consists of two parts. 

GiantVM - Universal Block Chain Virtual Machine 

GiantVM is a lightweight, general-purpose virtual machine. Its architecture is                   
based on the Javascript V8 engine that reads and executes instructions in the                         
contract in sequence, controls the process based on the functionality of the                       
instruction operations, logic operations and so on. It has a good start-up speed and                           
versatility, is very suitable for programs such as smart contracts, can also be ported                           
to non-blockchain systems, or integrated with the IDE to provide an optimal                       
development experience. 

Software Development Kit - Compiler and IDE plugin 

DevPack includes the high-level language compiler and the IDE plug-in.                   
Because GiantVM's architecture is based on Javascript engine, the compilers in                     
DevPack can compile Javascript code into GiantVM's instruction set. Developers do                     
not need to learn new languages and will be able to immediately start developing                           
smart contracts in any Javascript IDE. This greatly reduces the learning curve for                         
developing smart contracts, allowing us to easily build a vibrant community around                       
GiantContract. 

The first implementation of the API for smart contracts will focus on the                         
issues of implementing smart bets, but in the future, smart contracts in the Giant                           
network will become increasingly universal.   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

9 



 

The Decentralized Binary Options Giant.Exchange 

Decentralization, transparency and other good features of the Giant project                   
will be demonstrated in the first Giant decentralized application — Giant.Exchange. 

Centralized binary option companies have been known to scam investors by                       
manipulating the price feed in their favor, hold their funds and suspend accounts                         
when payout is to be proceeded. 

Traders are being robbed by fraudsters. They may win the trade or two but                           
still lose their money. 

Giant.Exchange founders aim to build an independent and decentralized                 
platform for the binary options industry based on the Giant blockchain. Traders on                         
the Giant.Exchange receive: 

● P2P trades - Traders bet against Brokers (the same traders who create                       
a smart bet contract), Giant.Exchange does not receive a share of profit                       
as traditional platforms do. 

● Guaranteed Payout - payments are made by the smart contract directly                     
to traders’ GIC address. No one can block withdrawals. 

● 100% Transparency and Provably Fair by getting assets price on                   
blockchain. Therefore cheating by price feed manipulation is               
impossible. 

● Independent suppliers of the verified information - Oracles will provide                   
the data on price motion and market dynamics by creating their own                       
smart contracts which link the API of crypto exchanges with the binary                       
options platform Giant.Exchange. 

We create a 100% on-chain system, as we believe the foundations of the Giant                           
blockchain are solid and can support a high user-friendly Dapp. 

We do not bet against traders but provide a large catalog of assets and create                             
marketplace by letting bankrollers (masternode owners) create varied asset                 
contracts by themselves on our platform, e.g. 1 minute BTC/USD, 5 minutes                       
BTC/ETH etc. 

Giant.Exchange has a separate White Paper that describes its features and                     
technological aspects. 

 

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

10 



 

Acknowledgments 

This project would not be possible without the previous work of the Bitcoin                         
and Dash development teams. We appreciate their efforts greatly. We are excited to                         
belong to an open source community and appreciate the opportunity to contribute                       
to this growing technological field. 

 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

11 



 

Legal 

Cryptocurrency investments are inherently high risk. Before using any                 
cryptocurrency, it is important to consider the nature, complexity and risk. Do not                         
invest more than you can afford to lose. It is important not to use coins with taking                                 
into account the possible loss, since the type of change in these currencies is highly                             
volatile and the Giant team is unable to regulate market-defined prices. We strongly                         
suggest seeking advice from your own financial, investment, tax, or legal adviser.                       
The Giant Development Team will always act in good faith and is not liable for the                               
use of Giant by other community members, people or institutions. 

 

 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

12 



 

Summary 

Giant is a distributed network that combines digital assets, smart contracts                     
and masternodes. The Giant system will use many original technologies, as the                       
infrastructure for the products which may benefit from the user-generated Smart                     
Bets and transparency. 

To make this all possible, the digital currency called Giant Coin (GIC) is used                           
for all Giant in-blockchain operations. GIC as a single mean of payment of Giant                           
based projects is capable of becoming mass used among users of Giant based                         
projects and investors running Masternodes. 

   

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

13 



 

References 

1. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System: ​https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf 

2. Dash White Paper: 
https://dashpay.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/5472261/Whitepaper 

Giant White Paper version 1.2  11 September 2018 

14 

https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
https://dashpay.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/5472261/Whitepaper

	My Bookmarks

