











































W H I T E P A P E R

AdCoin



2 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

Blockchain offers a lot of great opportunities for technological advancement. 
The first widely adopted blockchain was Bitcoin and was literally called 
“internet money”. While Bitcoin is still the dominant cryptocurrency, there are 
a lot of problems for actually using that internet money to perform (micro)-
payments. AdCoin aims to improve the online advertising payments by using 
the advantages of blockchain technology.

Payments with AdCoin can be performed 24/7, have an extremely low 
transaction fee and don’t require anything more than an AdCoin wallet 
address. For the advertising market this means cost reduction, faster 
payments, less risk and the ability to perform micro-payments. Publishers 
who receive AdCoin can either keep them or convert them to other 
cryptocurrencies. 

What the AdCoin team achieved so far:
• Listed on 3 exchanges;
• Wallets for Windows, Mac, Linux, Android and a universal web wallet;
• Implementation of SegWit protocol and Dark Gravity Wave 3 difficulty 

regulator;
• Complete API for purchasing, sending, receiving and storing AdCoin;
• Advertising platform;
• Integration with Wordpress (WooCommerce);
• Integration with Drupal;
• Stand-alone Wordpress payment plugin;
• Stand-alone Wordpress advertising plugin.

What’s next:
• Integrating with (major) advertising networks
• More integrations with content management systems
• Releasing AdCoin advertising tools, scripts and plugins

The goal of AdCoin is to bring cryptocurrency and blockchain technology to 
everyone who is working w  ith online advertising, from a mother just starting 
her personal blog to a multinational who wants to perform payments overseas. 

A B S T R A CT



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 3

Welcome to our whitepaper! In this whitepaper we will explain why and how 
AdCoin is created, who is behind AdCoin and what AdCoin aims to achieve. 

We are a group of finance-, marketing and IT geeks with a strong need to 
solve our problems through innovation. With this in mind we created AdCoin, 
a cryptocurrency that aims to improve the way online advertising is paid. By 
reducing costs, 24/7 availability and a secure network we create value for 
the online advertising market. We want to facilitate advertisers, advertising 
agencies, publishers and all other advertising related transactions. This 
separates AdCoin from a lot of other (advertising) blockchain startups, we are 
not here to replace existing advertising companies.

Thank you for your attention so far! Still interested? Please read the rest of the 
whitepaper and let us know if you have any questions or remarks!

I N T R O D U CT I O N



4 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

ABSTRACT  2
INTRODUCTION  3
ONLINE ADVERTISING   5
MARKET AND INDUSTRY  5
THE CREATION OF ADCOIN  8
WHY ADCOIN  9
ADCOIN FOR ADVERTISING NETWORKS  10
ADCOIN FOR ADVERTISERS  11
ADCOIN FOR PUBLISHERS  12
STRATEGY  13
ADVERTISING PLATFORM  16
BLOCKCHAIN DETAILS  17
PRESS  18
ADCOIN WEB WALLET  19
ADCOIN TEAM  21
ADCOIN COMPANY  23
CONTACT US  23

I N D E X



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 5

ONLINE ADVERTISING MARKET FIGURES
The online advertising market has been growing for years. While some (new) 
channels are getting a bigger percentage of the total online advertising spend, 
all separate categories are growing autonomously. 

According to Statista1 the online advertising market will keep growing every 
year until at least 2022. The expectation is that the market will reach $281 
billion in 2018 and nearly $400 billion in 2022.  

This data is supported by research of Magna Global2, that shows us that the 
online advertising market has grown in 2017 (17%) and is going to grow in the 
coming years while offline ad sales will decrease by 0.5% to $298 Billion in 
2018.  Magna global expect that the digital ad market will reach $348 Billion 
in 2022. The data of Magna Global is slightly less optimistic than Statista, 
but both support the view that the online advertising market will continue to 
increase in size.

1 Statista Digital Advertising Forecast, www.statista.com

2 Magna Global Forecast Winter Update December 2017, www.magnaglobal.com

O N L I N E A D V E RT I S I N G 
M A R K E T A N D I N D U S T RY



6 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

In the figure we can clearly see that the US is the biggest country in the 
advertising market, which is one of the reasons why AdCoin focusses on the 
US ad market. Following the US are China, UK, Japan and Germany. Magna 
Global states that the increase in the online advertising market will be due to 
a further increase in these mature markets rather than emerging advertising 
markets. 

ONLINE ADVERTISING INDUSTRY
The online advertising industry is one of the biggest online markets and has 
seen a lot of innovation; e.g. channels and media types. While the biggest 
players maintain their dominant position when it comes to advertising, there is 
a shift in advertising and publisher preferences. 

Companies who want to gain brand awareness or publishers who have a 
wide range of topics the classic way of online advertising through (irrelevant) 
banners still works. However, there is an increasing interest from companies 
to promote their products directly at their selected niches, which could 
be anything from a blogger, vlogger, online magazine or a social media 
influencer. Especially smaller publishers prefer alternative ways to monetize 
their content. A research performed by content monetizing company VigLink 
among 500 publishers and 100 advertisers shows that affiliate marketing and 
Google’s publisher solution AdSense are neck-to-neck for monetising content. 

Other Native
Advertising

Brand
Partnership/
Sponsorship

Affiliate
Marketing

Google
AdSense

Display
Advertising

Paid Product
Review



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 7

Intermediaries/third-parties

You Other people
and

businesses 

🏦🏦 🏦🏦

+fees, restrictions, slow, closed

Your money
at your bank

Their bank

ONLINE ADVERTISING PAYMENTS
The online advertising markets has a huge amount of companies who are 
buying and / or selling ads and therefor offer a wide variety of payment 
options. When looking at the top advertising companies of the world, the most 
commonly used options are Credit Card, PayPal or bank transfers.



8 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

A lot of great products were created by trying to solve a personal frustration. 
The idea for AdCoin also came from such a frustration. It’s hard to imagine 
anyone who has not seen any online advertising, whether it’s a banner on a 
news page or a short commercial before you are able to view an online video. 
Advertising is an important part of the internet ecosystem and is needed 
to continue to publish content for free. There are a lot of discussions about 
online marketing, ranging from the number of ads that are shown to privacy 
regulations. However what seems like a trivial part of online advertising is 
paying for the ads, but we experienced that this can lead to extremely time-
wasting frustrations, while spending significant amounts of money.

First of all, not every country has Credit Card or PayPal as their primary 
payment method. This makes it hard for a lot of people to pay for advertising 
on some of the biggest (social) platforms on the world. While we used 
corporate credit cards ourselves when running our businesses (all founders 
were already entrepreneurs before starting AdCoin), we ran into other 
problems. When you are scaling up your business you have increasing 
marketing expenses. We found that, especially around national holidays, we 
were unable to fund our credit card fast enough to pay for the online marketing 
costs. This resulted in advertising accounts being suspended and a major 
headache over getting our business back on its feet. While these are just two 
things that we thought that could be solve through blockchain we found there 
are a lot more benefits to using an advertising specific cryptocurrency. 

In March 2017 we started brainstorming and meeting multiple times a week 
to discuss how we could create a blockchain project to serve our purpose. 
We did our research and spoke to all types of advertising companies and 
individuals to confirm our assumptions.  After spending countless hours 
reading and coding we launched the AdCoin blockchain on July 8th 2017. 

T H E C R E AT I O N O F A D C O I N



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 9

There are a lot of advantages for using cryptocurrency over fiat currency 
which we will describe thoroughly further down the whitepaper, but why do we 
need AdCoin? There are multiple reasons for choosing our own blockchain 
and cryptocurrency over existing solutions.

Timing. At the time of the creation of AdCoin the first big Bitcoin fork was 
heavily debated and the future of Bitcoin was uncertain. While there were 
other cryptocurrency alternatives, such as Litecoin, it showed that the 
consensus around the future of a cryptocurrency is very important.

Individuality. The technological advancements of blockchain offer great 
opportunities but also forces to make choices on what to adopt. Since we 
want to focus solely on advertising related transactions there could be a 
potential conflict of interest with cryptocurrencies that are used for a more 
general purpose.

Exchange rate. It should not come as a surprise that the cryptocurrency 
market has been very volatile up until this point. By using a separate 
cryptocurrency, it is possible to stabilize the price per AdCoin. The more 
AdCoin becomes used in real applications the more stability it would bring 
to the volume and therefor price. With the focus on a niche market, AdCoin 
should be less influenced by external factors.

Focus. With a clear focus on facilitating advertising related transactions 
AdCoin can use all its resources on creating value for this market. 
From creating awesome integrations to making decisions on blockchain 
improvements, everything is done with our target group in mind! 

W HY A D C O I N

The AdCoin Network
You

Open, peer-to-peer, secure, instant, free

Other people
and

businesses 



10 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

SAVE MONEY
Directly cut costs by saving on transaction fees. The average fee for AdCoin 
is below 0,1%. AdCoin found that a lot of money has exchanged hands within 
the advertising market without adding value. On average 7% of advertising 
spend is wasted on transaction fees. That is over $15.000.000.000 per year!

ELIMINATE PAYMENT RISK
Most advertising networks use periodic billing to charge their fees to 
advertisers. Around 80% of businesses don’t survive their first operational 
year, which means that not all bills will be paid. Reduce the risk of not getting 
paid by using AdCoin and charge your clients on a daily (or even hourly) 
basis. With only a variable percentage fee it doesn’t matter how often you 
charge them!

MICRO TRANSACTIONS 
Enable micro transactions and attract a whole new group of publishers! With 
the normal processing- and administrative fees it’s not sustainable to pay the 
small publishers on a regular basis. With AdCoin the fees are close to zero 
and you can use the API’s to handle the administrative costs of your payouts.

ANONYMOUS CAMPAIGNS
Want to offer anonomity for your publishers? AdCoin transactions are placed 
on the blockchain, but it will not reveal the identity of the publisher.

A D C O I N F O R A D V E RT I S I N G 
N E T W O R K S



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 11

ONE CURRENCY FOR ALL YOUR PAYMENTS
Fund your advertising accounts with AdCoin. You don’t have to convert to 
exotic fiat currency and can pay everything with one currency! No more hassle 
with bank-transfers and waiting for the processing of your payment. Just one 
wallet for all your advertising accounts worldwide.

CHEAPER ADVERTISING
AdCoin-powered advertising networks make use of the extremely low fee, so 
they can offer a more competitive price per click or price per mille! A perfect 
win-win situation in which all parties benefit using the blockchain.

A D C O I N F O R A D V E RT I S E R S



12 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

MICRO- OR INSTANT PAYMENTS
With regular fiat currencies, you need to wait several days or weeks for your 
payout to arrive. This is because advertising networks experience traditional 
bank- and transaction costs by paying their publishers so they want to batch 
their payments as much as possible. With AdCoin, advertising networks can 
payout instantly and experiencing almost zero transaction fee on the network. 

BENEFIT FROM INCREASING VALUE
As a publisher, you can choose to convert AdCoin to fiat currency, however 
a lot of the publishers would like to invest in cryptocurrency. You can either 
keep the AdCoin and speculate on the scarcity or exchange it for other 
cryotocurrencies (e.g. exchange it for GameCredits and buy a games).

REINVEST
A lot of publishers don’t just receive money for showing advertisements, 
but also advertise themselves. With the low transactional fees and 24/7 
processing of payments AdCoin is ideal to reinvest your advertising earnings.

A D C O I N F O R P U B L I S H E R S



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 13

To create real value and a financial ecosystem the AdCoin team has chosen 
to facilitate their partners as much as possible. This means that the team will 
continuously provide tools to partner up with advertisers, advertising agencies 
and publishers. The development is roughly divided into four different 
categories.

GETADCOIN.COM BACKEND
The AdCoin team found that the wallet is one of the biggest obstacles for 
new cryptocurrency users. AdCoin therefor created a user-friendly web wallet 
which is linked to an order management system (converting fiat currency 
to AdCoin) and all partners using the AdCoin payment gateway are able to 
accept payments in AdCoin.

API
The API is a way to interact with an AdCoin Wallet without using the provided 
interface. With the API you can see your account details, orders, transactions 
and addresses. You can also create orders, addresses and pay people with 
AdCoin. Create payment requests via our payment gateway etc.

All features of the web wallet are available through a solid and detailed API. 
Our goal is that, with a development team in place, any project should be able 
to fully integrate with the AdCoin wallet within a day. Integrate with AdCoin 
through https://www.getadcoin.com/api/

S T R AT E G Y

Wallet API features
GET /me
GET /orders
POST /orders
GET /paymentmethods
GET /addresses
POST /addresses
POST /payto
GET /balance
GET /transactions

Payment API features
POST /api/payments
GET /api/payments



14 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

PAYMENT GATEWAY
AdCoin has created a payment gateway which is linked to the web wallet. 
This means it is extremely easy to pay or receive AdCoin. It can be as easy 
as entering your e-mail and password to do a payment, which is instantly 
broadcasted to the AdCoin network and verified after 6 blocks. To get a better 
idea of what this payment gateway looks like we have created some images in 
combination with the WooCommerce Payment plugin (see below). 

INTEGRATIONS 
To increase the adoption of AdCoin as the advertising payment standard some 
integrations will be facilitated by the team. The goal is to create plugins and 
off-the-shelf integrations for the most common content management systems 
and e-commerce platforms. 

Our first release (March 1st 2018) was a WooCommerce payment plugin. 
The rest of the integrations (including a stand-alone payment solution and 
advertising plugin for Wordpress) are scheduled for the upcoming half year 
and can be found in the roadmap.

ADCOIN PAYMENTS FOR WOOCOMMERCE
Since a lot of websites are working with Wordpress and Woocommerce, the 
AdCoin team decided to integrate the AdCoin payment API (see above) into 
WooCommerce. The plugin offers the following features:
• Accept payments directly into your personal AdCoin wallet.
• Accept payment in AdCoin for physical, digital downloadable products and/

or services.
• Add AdCoin payments option to your existing online store with alternative 

main currency.
• Automatic conversion to AdCoin via realtime exchange rate feed and 

calculations.
• Zero fees and no commissions for AdCoin payments processing from any 

third party.
• Powerful dashboard on wallet.getadcoin.com to easily keep track of your 

payments.
• Fast in-house support. You will always be assisted by someone who knows 

our products in-and-out.



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 15

Image: AdCoin for Woocommerce

Image: AdCoin for Woocommerce



16 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

AdCoin Click is the crypto advertising platform for every crypto related 
business. It connects the best fitting advertisers and publishers with unlimited 
possibilities. AdCoin Click is the result of AdCoin’s ambitions to improve the 
online advertising world by using the advantages of blockchain technology.

FEATURES
• Blockchain and cryptocurrency only
• Detailed targetting options
• Fraud detection
• Text, banner and pop-up ads
• Referral program (earn 5% from advertisers and publishers)

Start advertising or monetizing now on www.adcoin.click

A D V E RT I S I N G P L AT F O R M

 

Image: Publisher dashboard



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 17

AdCoin is built on the Litecoin code. With the hardfork that took place in 
February 2018 it was decided to remove a lot of the custom code that AdCoin 
implemented in the initial release and move to a code as close to Litecoin as 
we could, of course with our own parameters. In addition, we added the Dark 
Gravity Wave 3 difficulty regulator to improve the block spacing.

SegWit was accepted on February 3rd 2018
Dark Gravity Wave 3 was accepted on block 27000

B LO C K C H A I N D E TA I L S



18 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

P R E S S
https://www.ccn.com/new-crypto-advertisement-platform-is-using-adcoin/

https://cointelegraph.com/news/company-launches-blockchain-platform-to-
enable-transparent-and-low-cost-advertising

https://www.newsbtc.com/2018/05/08/dutch-startup-adcoin-launches-new-
crypto-advertisement-platform/



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 19

AdCoin needs to be stored safely in a wallet. The AdCoin team developed 
wallets for Mac and Windows as well as a web wallet.

Our AdCoin team took great care in developing the web wallet. The wallet is 
packed with great features such as QR-codes, two factor authentication (2FA), 
search by email, integrated order management and a clear overview of the 
user’s current balance and past transactions. 

Digital security is a high priority in all releases from the AdCoin team. Our 
web wallet is secured with the lastest protection details, to make sure that the 
AdCoin are stored safely.

The AdCoin web wallet is currently available in English aswell as in German. 
More languages are coming in the near future. 

A D C O I N W E B WA L L E T

 

Image: Interface AdCoin Web Wallet

Image: New payment



20 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

Our development team focussed on usability. It is very easy to send your 
AdCoin to other people. You only need to enter a valid email address and the 
amount of AdCoin you want to send in the ‘New payment’ option and press 
‘Submit’. Or transfer AdCoin by scanning a QR Code. 

Image: Overview last made transactions

Image: Addressbook for (frequently)used contacts

Image: Overview Orders



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 21

The team started with 4 entrepreneurs, each with their own specialism. The 
team grows rapidly and is getting more community driven. Below we present 
the current team structure. We want to emphasize that the people working to 
improve AdCoin are not necessarily holding AdCoin or working for the AdCoin 
company.

A D C O I N T E A M

FOUNDERS

DEVELOPERS

Patrick van Dijl
Fintech enthusiast who enjoys the 
human-to-human part of business.

Niels-Jan van der Hoek
The networker who connects AdCoin 
to executives and the media.

Ricardo Oosterling
Prefers to talk in Linux command 
lines while working on our security.

Jerry Donker
The serial entrepreneur who lives the 
“getting things done” philosophy.

Melissa Gol
Enjoys working on big projects and 
chooses coding over sleeping.

Kiran Kovacic
Telegram bots have no secrets for 
this man.

Xander Robbemond
The silent force in our team.

Anne Douwe Bouma
Core developer and the brains behind 
the web wallet and API. 

Maxim van Dijk
The integration guru. Work hard, 
integrate harder.

Peter Willemsen
Blockchain and C++ genius, the go-to 
guy for the AdCoin chain.



22 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

ADVISORS

COMMUNITY MANAGERS AND MODERATORS

Jeroen van IJzendoorn
The Telegram moderator who always 
smiles and thinks in possibilities. 

Ivan Ho
Only thinks in solutions and connects 
us to the outside world.

Nick Hoedemakers
Our first miner and crypto enthusiast 
who helps out wherever he can.

MARKETING & PR

Lars Berger
Breathes optimism and reaches out 
to all AdCoin customers. 

Matthijs Munter
Translating the wishes of the 
stakeholders to the best possible UX.

Luc Nugteren
The target audience is always on the 
mind of this crypto enthusiast. 



Version: 3.0 AdCoin Whitepaper 23

We firmly believe that the community around AdCoin is the foundation of 
(future) success and that decentralization is what makes cryptocurrency 
great. Unfortunately, regulations force us to centralize in some way. AdCoin is 
registered at the Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands under the name 
AdCoin Click B.V. The company’s main purpose is to perform the conversion 
between fiat currency and AdCoin. In addition, it is the legal entity for 
partnerships with advertising companies. 

CONTACT US
If you have any questions for the AdCoin Team: Feel free to contact us 
through one of our communication channels:

www.getadcoin.com
Telegram: adcoinacc
Facebook: getadcoin
Twitter: @getadcoin

A D C O I N C O M PA N Y



24 AdCoin Whitepaper Version: 3.0

AdCoin
Whitepaper
Version 3


